http://www.thedailybeast.com/exclusive-erik-prince-on-blackwaters-secret-cia-past
	Exclusive: Erik Prince on Blackwater’s Secret CIA Past

	Eli Lake


If Prince was with CIA, why even say this?

	But the most noteworthy thing about the largely failed prosecution wasn’t the outcome. It was the tens of thousands of pages of documents—some declassified—that the litigation left in its wake. These documents illuminate Blackwater’s defense strategy—and it’s a fascinating one: to defeat the charges it was facing, Blackwater built a case not only that it worked with the CIA—which was already widely known—but that it was in many ways an extension of the agency itself.



	...

	But the 2008 visit, according to Prince, was different. “ATF agents had guns drawn and wore tactical jackets festooned with the initials ATF. It was a cartoonish show of force,” he said. (Earl Woodham, a spokesman for the Charlotte field division of the ATF, disputes this characterization. “This was the execution of a federal search warrant that requires they be identified with the federal agency,” he says. “They had their firearms covered to execute a federal search warrant. To characterize this as anything other than a low-key execution of a federal search warrant is inaccurate.”)


	...

	This document made Blackwater’s defense clear: “the CIA routinely used Blackwater in missions throughout the world,” it said. “These efforts were made under written and unwritten contracts and through informal requests. On many occasions the CIA paid Blackwater nothing for its assistance. 


hmmm



http://abcnews.go.com/Blotter/story?id=5256329
	Federal Agents Raid Blackwater Armory, Seize AK-47s


got in legal trouble?



http://content.time.com/time/specials/2007/personoftheyear/article/0,28804,1690753_1690758_1693583,00.html
	Is this the face of modern warfare? As founder of Blackwater USA, Prince provided well-paid mercenaries to do the jobs in Iraq that a pared-down U.S. military couldn't do. Then Blackwater security forces got a reputation as dangerously trigger-happy, and Prince was hauled before Congress. At issue: was Prince favored with contracts because he comes from a family of wealthy Republican donors? 



https://www.rt.com/op-edge/ukraine-blackwater-mercenaries-russia-794/

Interesting---Russia tried to say the special forces in Ukraine were blackwater


------


http://www.breitbart.com/radio/2016/09/08/erik-prince-trump-is-right-that-we-can-work-with-putin-to-defeat-common-enemy-of-islamic-fascism/
	“Putin is large and in charge in Russia. He is enormously popular with the Russian people, because the country had drifted, post-Soviet communism, kind of off into the abyss,” Prince pointed out. “He’s at least tried to direct the country and keep it together.”

	“Do we want a leader exactly like Putin in America?” he asked. “No. Do we want their political system? No way. But Trump is right, in at least that we can work with Putin, because we have a common enemy, and that is Islamic fascism.”

	“Believe me, if we could work with Josef Stalin, we could definitely work with Vladimir Putin,” Prince contended. “The Russians, the Soviet Union then, was certainly not our friends during World War II, or during the Cold War, and during World War II they were our allies, and they did most of the heavy lifting that defeated German Nazism.”

	“Russian special forces, before ISIS even erupted, was doing hundreds of kill/capture missions every year, inside of Russia, because they have a real problem in Chechnya, Dagestan, and those regions,” he said.

	“Having Islamic fascism creep out of the Middle East and up into those countries directly affects Russia, and that’s why it matters to Putin,” Prince said. “And that’s actually something we could work together with them, and even with the Chinese – they have a problem with radical Islam in the west of their country, in the northwest, in Xinjiang province as well.”

	“Do we agree with them on everything? No way. Russia is wrong on Ukraine, and Crimea. But working with them to defeat Islamic radicalism is something we should do.”


http://www.breitbart.com/radio/2016/06/14/eric-prince-hard-say-winning-war-islamic-fascism-right-now/
	Prince suggested reviewing the global battlefield, to determine whether the West is winning the war against Islamic fascism.



------


http://www.newsweek.com/profile-blackwaters-erik-prince-103877
	A month ago, Blackwater guards protecting an American diplomat killed 17 apparently unarmed Iraqis in a chaotic scene in a Baghdad square. (After the incident, the company said it had "acted lawfully and appropriately in response to a hostile attack.") A recent book, "Blackwater: The Rise of the World's Most Powerful Mercenary Army," by Jeremy Scahill, strongly suggests that Prince is a "neo- crusader," a "Theocon" with a Christian-supremacist agenda.


trying to start a religious war?

	...One of Joan's close friends, who declined to be identified discussing private matters, tells NEWSWEEK a doctor recommended Joan terminate the pregnancy before the cancer could be fed by the further rush of estrogen. Joan, a devout Catholic, had the baby—and then had two more. She died of cancer in 2003. 


sketchy article... trying to blame Prince for death of his wife?



http://www.cbsnews.com/news/blackwater-chief-welcomes-extra-oversight/
	"I'm an American working for America. Anything we do is to support U.S. policy. You know the definition of a mercenary is a professional soldier that works in the pay of a foreign army. I'm an American working for America," Prince says.



------


https://www.thenation.com/article/blackwater-founder-implicated-murder/
	Sworn statements filed in Federal Court allege that Blackwater founder Erik Prince launched a “crusade” to eliminate Muslims and Islam.

	By Jeremy Scahill


http://abcnews.go.com/Blotter/blackwater-chief-accused-murder-gun-running/story?id=8258915
	The men gave the affidavits as "John Doe" and "John Doe 2," saying they feared for their safety. "Mr. Prince's management has personally threatened me with death and violence," wrote Doe 2. He says also that others told him "Mr. Prince and his employees murdered, or had murdered" one or more people who had cooperated with the feds, or were planning to. 

	But allegations of murder just scratch the surface: the two men – one alleges he is an ex-Marine, the other says he shared his allegations with a federal grand jury – claim far more. John Doe 2 claims routine murderous violence against Iraqis, a wife-swapping sex ring, use of child prostitutes, gun-running and more by Blackwater employees. John Doe 2 describes Prince as viewing himself as "a Christian crusader tasked with eliminating Muslims and the Islamic faith from the globe," who intentionally sent like-minded mercenaries to Iraq "to take every available opportunity to murder Iraqis." 


http://www.cnn.com/2009/US/08/04/iraq.blackwater.lawsuit/
	However, neither gives clear details about the incidents they describe, such as specific dates or locations.


interesting

accusations sensationalized... deliberate?



http://www.nytimes.com/2009/11/11/world/middleeast/11blackwater.html
	WASHINGTON — Top executives at Blackwater Worldwide authorized secret payments of about $1 million to Iraqi officials that were intended to silence their criticism and buy their support after a September 2007 episode in which Blackwater security guards fatally shot 17 Iraqi civilians in Baghdad, according to former company officials.

	Blackwater approved the cash payments in December 2007, the officials said, as protests over the deadly shootings in Nisour Square stoked long-simmering anger inside Iraq about reckless practices by the security company’s employees. American and Iraqi investigators had already concluded that the shootings were unjustified, top Iraqi officials were calling for Blackwater’s ouster from the country, and company officials feared that Blackwater might be refused an operating license it would need to retain its contracts with the State Department and private clients, worth hundreds of millions of dollars annually.

	...Five Blackwater guards involved in the shooting are facing federal manslaughter charges, and their trial is scheduled to start in February in Washington. A sixth guard pleaded guilty in December. The company has never faced criminal charges in the case, although the Iraqi victims brought a civil lawsuit in federal court against Blackwater and Mr. Prince.

	Separately, a federal grand jury in North Carolina, where the company has its headquarters, has been conducting a lengthy investigation into it. One of the former executives said that he had told federal prosecutors there about the plan to pay Iraqi officials to drop their inquiries into the Nisour Square case. If Blackwater followed through, the company or its officials could face charges of obstruction of justice and violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which bans bribes to foreign officials.

	....Federal prosecutors in North Carolina have interviewed a number of former Blackwater employees about a variety of issues, including allegations of weapons smuggling, according to several former employees who say they have testified before the grand jury or been interviewed by prosecutors, as well as lawyers familiar with the matter. Two former employees have pleaded guilty to weapons charges and are believed to be cooperating with prosecutors.


	...The Nisour Square shooting was the bloodiest and most controversial episode involving Blackwater in the Iraq war. At midday on Sept. 16, 2007, a Blackwater convoy opened fire on Iraqi civilians in the crowded intersection, spraying automatic weapons fire in ways that investigators later claimed was indiscriminate, and even launching grenades into a nearby school. Seventeen Iraqis were killed and dozens more were wounded.

	The matter set off an international outcry and intense debates in Iraq and the United States over the role of private contractors in war zones. Many Iraqis condemned Blackwater, which they had long seen as an arrogant rogue operation, and Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki declared that the Blackwater shooting was a challenge to his nation’s sovereignty. His government opened investigations into the episode and previous fatal shootings by Blackwater guards, and threatened to bar the company from operating in the country.



http://www.nytimes.com/2011/05/15/world/middleeast/15prince.html
	Mr. Prince, who resettled here last year after his security business faced mounting legal problems in the United States, was hired by the crown prince of Abu Dhabi to put together an 800-member battalion of foreign troops for the U.A.E., according to former employees on the project, American officials and corporate documents obtained by The New York Times.

	The force is intended to conduct special operations missions inside and outside the country, defend oil pipelines and skyscrapers from terrorist attacks and put down internal revolts, the documents show. Such troops could be deployed if the Emirates faced unrest in their crowded labor camps or were challenged by pro-democracy protests like those sweeping the Arab world this year.

	...it is not clear whether the project has the United States’ official blessing. Legal experts and government officials said some of those involved with the battalion might be breaking federal laws that prohibit American citizens from training foreign troops if they did not secure a license from the State Department.

	Mark C. Toner, a spokesman for the department, would not confirm whether Mr. Prince’s company had obtained such a license, but he said the department was investigating to see if the training effort was in violation of American laws. Mr. Toner pointed out that Blackwater (which renamed itself Xe Services ) paid $42 million in fines last year for training foreign troops in Jordan and other countries over the years.


"Americans working for Americans"

	...He even had proposed that the Central Intelligence Agency use his company for special operations missions around the globe, but to no avail.


I wonder why

	...People involved in the project and American officials said that the Emiratis were interested in deploying the battalion to respond to terrorist attacks and put down uprisings inside the country’s sprawling labor camps, which house the Pakistanis, Filipinos and other foreigners who make up the bulk of the country’s work force.


reminds me of https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pinkerton_(detective_agency)


------


http://www.newsweek.com/profile-blackwaters-erik-prince-103877
	He was once quoted by a defense-industry newsletter describing why his private contractors could provide better—more effective, more efficient—"relief with teeth" in a dangerous environment than international aid organizations or even the U.S. military: "Everybody carries guns, just like Jeremiah rebuilding the Temple in Israel, a sword in one hand, a trowel in the other."


trying to make it sound like a crusade?




------


http://foreignpolicy.com/2014/10/28/blackwaters-erik-prince-talks-fighting-ebola-isis-and-bad-press/
	As the defense analyst Peter W. Singer has noted, Blackwater was very good at protecting people, but its single-minded focus on security to the detriment of winning “hearts and minds” undermined the credibility of the broader U.S. operation in Iraq, as seen in the fallout over Blackwater’s 2007 Baghdad shootings. “If they push traffic off the roads or if they shoot up a car that looks suspicious, whatever it may be, they may be operating within their contract — to the detriment of the mission, which is to bring the people over to your side,” the counter-insurgency expert Army Col. Peter Mansoor said in 2007.


the elephant in the room? seems like his whole purpose is to undermine the "hearts and minds" part of the war

	Prince acknowledges in his book that Blackwater’s “approach earned us no friends among Iraqi civilians, or the emergent government agencies representing them.” And indeed, he struggled to free Blackwater from its own track record, which includes charges of arms smuggling as well as unwarranted violence. He changed the firm’s name to Xe in 2009 and sold it in 2010 to a group of shareholders, who have since reconstituted the company as Academi and tried to distance it from Prince.


------


https://web.archive.org/web/20100112074139/http://www.economist.com/blogs/democracyinamerica/2009/08/erik_prince_and_the_last_crusa
	Mr Prince is further accused of trying to cover up Blackwater's misdeeds, which allegedly include profiteering and arms smuggling, by killing employees who tried to blow the whistle on the company.

	It's quite a story; who knows if the juicier parts are true. I have no idea if Mr Prince is a murderer, or if he wanted to start another crusade. But as far as Blackwater's violence and lack of transparency go, this is not news. We may be shocked by the alleged motives, but we've known the results for some time. Here's part of a headline from a 2007 Los Angeles Times story on Blackwater: "House memo says guards in Iraq often instigate violence, cover up misconduct and skirt legal sanctions". Go back and read news reports on the company, like this New York Times piece:

    	Blackwater, based in North Carolina, has gained a reputation among Iraqis and even among American military personnel serving in Iraq as a company that flaunts an aggressive, quick-draw image that leads its security personnel to take excessively violent actions to protect the people they are paid to guard...

    	Today, Blackwater operates in the most violent parts of Iraq and guards the most prominent American diplomats, which some American government officials say explains why it is involved in more shootings than its competitors. The shootings included in the [State Department] reports include all cases in which weapons are fired, including those meant as warning shots. Others add that Blackwater’s aggressive posture in guarding diplomats reflects the wishes of its client, the State Department’s Bureau of Diplomatic Security.

   		Still, other government officials say that Blackwater’s corporate culture seems to encourage excessive behavior. “Is it the operating environment or something specific about Blackwater?” asked one government official. “My best guess is that it is both.” 

	Sending Christian crusaders to a Muslim country where you're trying to restore peace is what I would call a very bad idea. Perhaps that wasn't the case, but sending freelance soldiers into a country unbound by any laws is still a terrible strategy. It breeds a shoot first, ask questions later mentality. And for Blackwater, at times, it was more like shoot first, drive on. The latest allegations are shocking, but much of the story is not surprising at all.


http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/27/world/middleeast/27contractor.html
	WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 — The American security contractor Blackwater USA has been involved in a far higher rate of shootings while guarding American diplomats in Iraq than other security firms providing similar services to the State Department, according to Bush administration officials and industry officials.


	...Blackwater, based in North Carolina, has gained a reputation among Iraqis and even among American military personnel serving in Iraq as a company that flaunts an aggressive, quick-draw image that leads its security personnel to take excessively violent actions to protect the people they are paid to guard...

    Today, Blackwater operates in the most violent parts of Iraq and guards the most prominent American diplomats, which some American government officials say explains why it is involved in more shootings than its competitors. The shootings included in the [State Department] reports include all cases in which weapons are fired, including those meant as warning shots. Others add that Blackwater’s aggressive posture in guarding diplomats reflects the wishes of its client, the State Department’s Bureau of Diplomatic Security.

   	Still, other government officials say that Blackwater’s corporate culture seems to encourage excessive behavior. “Is it the operating environment or something specific about Blackwater?” asked one government official. “My best guess is that it is both.” 


------

https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/DOC_0000761608.pdf

soviets like to use religious propaganda


https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP89T01451R000200230001-8.pdf

	The Soviet Government continues to regard Zionism as an effective US tool for generating anti-Soviet sentiment in the West and subversive activism wthin the indigenous Jewish population ... Soviet proagandist use a small number of "patriotic" Jews to counter the negative publicity surrounding the plight of Soviet Jews.


http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2013/07/09/ex-soviet-bloc-spy-chief-explains-hidden-origin-todays-jihad.html
	By Lt. Gen. Ion Mihai Pacepa 

	Most people believe the worst damage from espionage against the U.S. has been the theft of highly classified secrets, such as the technology for the atom bomb. As one who spent decades at the top of the Soviet bloc intelligence world – until, by God’s grace, I defected in 1978 – I can tell you that the absolutely worst, and often irreparable, damage done to the Free World has been caused by disinformation.

	As I reveal in my new book, “Disinformation,” co-written with Professor Ronald Rychlak, during the Cold War more people worked for the Soviet bloc disinformation machinery than for the Soviet army and defense industry put together. 

	The Cold War is indeed over, but, unlike other wars, it did not end with a defeated enemy throwing down his weapons. Indeed, today's terrorism against the U.S. was generated by the same enormous disinformation machinery.


	...By 1972, Andropov's disinformation machinery was working around the clock to persuade the Islamic world that the U.S. intended to transform the rest of the world into a Zionist fiefdom. He wanted us to convince Muslims that the U.S. Congress was a "Council of the Elders of Zion" which conspired to have the Jews take over the world. If we whipped up Muslim anti-Semitism, then terrorism and violence against Israel and America would naturally follow.

	Thus, the Romanian DIE (counterpart of KGB foreign intelligence), which I headed, in 1972 received from the KGB an Arabic translation of the old Russian forgery, “The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.” We also received "documentary" material in Arabic produced by the Soviet disinformation "proving" America was a Zionist country whose aim was to transform the Islamic world into a Jewish fief. 

	My DIE was ordered to disseminate these documents within its targeted Islamic countries. During my later years in Romania, the DIE disseminated thousands of copies of “The Protocols” and similar “documents” each month.

	The fruit of the KGB’s disinformation campaign was seen on Sept. 11, 2001. The weapon of choice for that horrific act was a hijacked airplane – a concept invented and perfected by Andropov's disinformation machinery.



http://sites.dartmouth.edu/crusadememory/category/crusader-motives-and-motivation/
	From Syrian leader Hafez al-Assad’s commission of a statue of Saladin in front of the citadel in Damascus in 1992 to Saddam Hussein’s self-declaration as the incarnation of Saladin, the 20th century saw a reemergence of memory that served modern Islamic leaders and their political ends. 


http://www.nationalreview.com/article/220747/crusade-propaganda-thomas-f-madden
	In a 1998 manifesto, cosigned by the leaders of Islamist groups in Egypt, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, Osama bin Laden declared war against the “Jews and the Crusaders.” If you didn’t guess, the Americans are the crusaders here. On the day the U.S. strikes on Afghanistan began, in a live-from-a-cave address, bin Laden declared Bush to be “the leader of the infidels” in a worldwide war against Islam. He previously warned that “crusader” Bush would lead the infidel forces into Afghanistan “under the banner of the cross.”



------

http://www.nationalreview.com/article/220747/crusade-propaganda-thomas-f-madden
	by Thomas F. Madden

	Now put this down in your notebook, because it will be on the test: The crusades were in every way a defensive war. They were the West’s belated response to the Muslim conquest of fully two-thirds of the Christian world.


http://www.nationalreview.com/article/218746/unreasonable-response-thomas-f-madden
	by Thomas F. Madden

	Benedict XVI hasn't revived the Crusades. In November 1095 Pope Urban II called the First Crusade. To judge from the comments issuing from some Muslim groups and politicians, Pope Benedict XVI has done the same thing. According to Salih Kapusuz, a deputy leader of the majority party in Turkey, Benedict, “has a dark mentality that comes from the darkness of the Middle Ages. He is a poor thing that has not benefited from the spirit of reform in the Christian world.”


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Madden
	Thomas F. Madden (born 1960) is an American historian, a former Chair of the History Department at Saint Louis University in St. Louis, Missouri, and Director of Saint Louis University's Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies.[1] A specialist on the Crusades, he has often commented in the popular media after the events of September 11, to discuss topics such as how Muslims have viewed the medieval Crusades and their parallels to today's interventions in the Middle East.[2]


just in time!


https://www.foreignaffairs.com/reviews/capsule-review/2009-11-01/empires-trust-how-rome-built-and-america-building-new-world
	Books about the end of the American era and a "return to multipolarity" should be read alongside this fascinating contrary view. Madden, a scholar of ancient history, argues that the United States shares important similarities with the long-lasting Roman Empire.


Uh huh


------

https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/csi-publications/books-and-monographs/okhrana-the-paris-operations-of-the-russian-imperial-police/5474-1.html
	CIA Interest in the Okhrana Files

	The author of the six articles, who used the pseudonym "Rita T. Kronenbitter," wrote them at the request of the CIA's Counterintelligence Staff. "Kronenbitter" was among the first researchers to display an interest in the Okhrana files. The articles originally were classified "confidential," presumably to avoid revelation of the CIA's interest in the Okhrana records.

	Why was CIA counterintelligence interested in what the Hoover Institution's press release hailed as a "mother lode of knowledge on crucial years leading to the overthrow of the Romanovs in March 1917"? The Hoover archive was the only comprehensive collection of pre-1917 Russian police and intelligence files in the West. During the Soviet era, some specialists viewed these unique files as being of more than historical interest. British espionage historian Richard Deacon suggested why the Okhrana was of interest long after its demise when he wrote that the Russian police agency "was, in fact, a comprehensive, coordinated espionage and counterespionage organization, the most total form of espionage devised in the latter part of the 19th century and still forming the basis of Soviet espionage and counterespionage today."

	CIA's Counterintelligence Staff apparently believed these files would yield data on Russia's intelligence "culture" and methods that could provide new insights into Moscow's Soviet-era operations. Some at CIA challenged this notion, claiming that the KGB was a qualitatively new organization employing a different tradecraft. Years later, former KGB officers Oleg Gordievsky and Oleg Kalugin asserted that the KGB had used Okhrana manuals in training and lecture courses when they were KGB trainees in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Kalugin claims that use of Okhrana materials continued into the 1980s.