

------


http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2016-election/donald-trump-tells-pigs-blood-bullets-tale-sc-rally-n522156
	Donald Trump Tells ‘Pig’s Blood’ Bullets Tale at S.C. Rally

	“He took 50 bullets, and he dipped them in pig’s blood," Trump said. "And he had his men load his rifles and he lined up the 50 people, and they shot 49 of those people. And the 50th person, he said, 'You go back to your people and you tell them what happened.' And for 25 years there wasn’t a problem, okay?"

	The story appears to be a hoax spread via e-mail forwards


https://books.google.com/books?id=aNfrnkW2AF4C
	My Life before the World War, 1860--1917: A Memoir
	By John J. Pershing

	The Moros are, as is well known, very jealous of their religion, and like all Muhammadans, stand ready to defend their faith by force of arms. What I have always said to them was given authoritative force by what General Chaffee said on this subject in his proclamation. At the conclusion all, except some of those from the South Lake country, expressed themselves as satisifed that no general war was to be waged and that ehy could proceed unmolested in their religion and in the pursuit of their lawful ad peaceful occupations.

	...With the small nucleus of friendly Moros to assit us, efforts were at once begun to influence others ...Letters were written and friendly Moros were sent out to assure all of them that we ahd their best interests at heart, and inviting those who had not done so to visit us and become personally acquainted, in order, if possible, that mutual confidence might be established between us. They were told that our purpose was to avoid further war with them, if possible; that we did not want to kill their people nor destory their property; that we desired them to bring their produce to our market; that we wished to employ them as laborers on the road and about camp; that we had no intention of disturbing their reigion nor of changing ther lawful customs, and that in coming among them we had no other idea than to make them our friends.

	In response to thse letters and invitations many visited us, and others replied by letter, expressing their desire to be on friendly terms with us.


http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a502181.pdf
	AMERICAN MILITARY STRATEGY DURING THE MORO INSURRECTION IN THE PHILIPPINES 1903-1913

	A thesis presented to the Faculty of the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree

	MASTER OF MILITARY ART AND SCIENCE 

	...The American government in time began to realize that security of the province and the “civilizing” of the Moro people were linked together.  The Moros often interpreted “civilizing” the Moros as interference in their religious traditions.  The Moros’ customs and traditions were based on their interpretations of Islam and, therefore, any change or modification imposed by the government could be resisted as a means of defending the faith.

	...Accordingly, there existed an Islamic duty to resist.  Incidents involving Moro suicide attacks against American troops or government employees were seen as a matter of religious resistance meant to obtain justice for an insult to Islam.  The government realized that true security would only be achieved by developing a program for “civilizing” the Moros that took the Islamic religion into account even if it meant allowing some practices that were not commensurate with western ideals.

	...Colonel Harbord’s instructed his officers to familiarize themselves with the people, language and physical geography of their areas and to avoid doing anything to offend the Muslim religion as he believed this was essential to establishing good relations with the people in their districts, both military and civil.  Garrisons were only to be manned by enlisted recruits of the same racial or ethnic background due to the animosities between groups ...The uniform of the Moro province constabulary was modified to allow the wearing of a red fez with black tassel for official headgear in deference to Moro Islamic culture.

	...Unfortunately, these cultural accommodations did not go far enough in assuaging Moro fears of religious interference by the American administration.  Religious leaders eventually exploited these fears and became some of the leading instigators of resistance to American authority during the Pershing administration.  Bliss’ administration identified a problem in their strategy but did not act sufficiently to prevent it from developing into a source of resistance that later confronted Pershing. 

	...American military leaders would do well to examine their Army’s first experiences dealing with those Islamic forces in the region.  America’s conduct of operations in Moroland does provide positive examples that should be incorporated into future operations in the region.  Establishing good governance and economic measures that attract the support of the population and provide the opposing leadership an alternative to resistance is essential.


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/20/i-think-islam-hates-us-a-timeline-of-trumps-comments-about-islam-and-muslims/
	March 30, 2011: For years, Trump publicly questioned then-President Barack Obama’s religious beliefs and place of birth. As he debated running for president in the 2012 election, Trump said in a radio interview: “He doesn't have a birth certificate, or if he does, there's something on that certificate that is very bad for him. Now, somebody told me — and I have no idea if this is bad for him or not, but perhaps it would be — that where it says 'religion,' it might have 'Muslim.' And if you're a Muslim, you don't change your religion, by the way.”


	...Nov. 30, 2015: On MSNBC, a reporter asked Trump if he thinks Islam is an inherently peaceful religion that's been perverted by a small percentage of followers or if it is an inherently violent religion. Trump responded: “Well, all I can say … there’s something going on. You know, there's something definitely going on. I don't know that that question can be answered.” He also said: “We are not loved by many Muslims.


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/812408189492797442
	slaughter you. This is a purely religious threat, which turned into reality. Such hatred! When will the U.S., and all countries, fight back?


http://www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1603/09/acd.01.html
	COOPER: Do you think Islam is at war with the west?

	TRUIMP: I think Islam hates us. There is something -- there is something there that is a tremendous hatred there. There's a tremendous hatred. We have to get to the bottom of it. There's an unbelievable hatred of us.

	COOPER: In Islam itself?

	TRUMP: You're going to have to figure that out. OK. You'll get another Pulitzer, right? But you'll have to figure that out. But there's a tremendous hatred. And we have to be very vigilant. We have to be very careful. And we can't allow people coming into this country who have this hatred of the United States.



http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-muslim-registry/story?id=43639946
	In an interview with NBC News last November, Trump was asked: "is there going to be a database that tracks the Muslims here in this country?" 

	..."There should be a lot of systems, beyond database, we should have a lot of systems, and today you can do it," Trump responds. "But right now we have to have a border, we have to have strength, we have to have a wall. And we cannot let what’s happening to this country happen."

	"But that's something your White House would like to implement?" the reporter presses.

	"Oh I would certainly implement that. Absolutely." Trump answers.

	But Trump continues to talk about the logistics of implementing such a database at length.

	"But for Muslims specifically, how do you actually get them registered in a database?" the reporter asks. Trump responds: "It would be just good management. What you have to do is good management procedures and we can do that."

	He also responds to a question about going to mosques to "sign these people up." "Different places, you sign them up at different, but it’s all about management, our country has no management," Trump says. 


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/673993417429524480
	Statement on Preventing Muslim Immigration:

	DONALD J. TRUMP STATEMENT ON PREVENTING MUSLILM IMMIGRATION


http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2016-election/snake-trump-poetry-slams-syrian-refugees-allegorical-song-n495311
	Trump employed a never-before-seen tactic on the trail Tuesday evening: A dramatic reading, glasses and all, of Al Wilson’s "The Snake."

	The song, which has an old-school R&B beat, paints a picture of a trusting woman (read: America) who invites a snake into her home, saving him from freezing. Ultimately, as she “clutched him to her bosom" he bites her.

	When she asks why he did that after all she’d done for him, the "vicious" reptile replies "oh shut up silly woman ... you knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in."

	Upon finishing the recitation, the crowd cheered. “That’s right!” one man cried out.

	“Does that make sense?” Trump asked the clapping crowd of about 1,000 people gathered in the University of Northern Iowa gymnasium. “Hopefully that’s not gonna be the case,” he said, referencing the controversial decision of whether or not to take Syrian refugees into the country. 


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2017/05/20/i-think-islam-hates-us-a-timeline-of-trumps-comments-about-islam-and-muslims/?utm_term=.609f3108fae1
	July 24, 2016: On NBC News, Trump defended his proposal for a Muslim ban, despite some of his aides insisting he had rolled it back. “People were so upset when I used the word Muslim. ‘Oh, you can’t use the word Muslim,’ " Trump said. "… But just remember this: Our Constitution is great, but it doesn’t necessarily give us the right to commit suicide, okay? Now, we have a religious — you know, everybody wants to be protected. And that’s great. And that’s the wonderful part of our Constitution. I view it differently. Why are we committing suicide? Why are we doing that?”


	...Aug. 18, 2016: During a rally in North Carolina, Trump said that “all applicants for immigration will be vetted for ties to radical ideology, and we will screen out anyone who doesn't share our values and love our people.”


https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/788913709313699840


------



http://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-37066304
	IS conflict: Manbij residents celebrate liberation

	Residents in the northern Syrian city of Manbij have been celebrating new freedoms after being liberated from the rule of so-called Islamic State.

	They have poured into the streets enjoying basic rights they had been denied for two years

	...About 2,000 civilians being used as human shields were also freed.

	...One happy evacuee could be seen having his beard cut off

	...This woman decided to burn her niqab to mark the end of IS rule 

	...Many Manbij residents shed tears of joy after being liberated

	...Reuters news agency spoke to a resident of Manbij who described a spot where people were beheaded. "For anything or using the excuse that he did not believe [in God], they put him and cut his head off.

	"It is all injustice," he said.


http://www.foxnews.com/world/2016/08/13/wild-celebrations-after-isis-defeated-in-syrian-town-manbij.html
	Amateur videos showed civilians hugging fighters from the predominently Kurdish Syria Democratic Forces (SDF) after being evacuated from the final ISIS-held neighborhood.

	"May God destroy them. They slaughtered us," a young man shouted in a Manbij square. "May they not live for a minute."

	In a photo posted online by Kurdish activists, a young woman defiantly uncovered her face while smoking a cigarette and flashing a victory sign.



https://www.qt.com.au/news/syrians-burn-burqas-and-shave-beards-spite-defeate/3203756/
	Emotional survivors were filmed stamping on the garments after they were helped to freedom by the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), an alliance dominated by Kurdish fighters.

	One woman cried: "Give me a lighter, I'm going to burn this. May these clothes they forced us to wear be damned!"

	Another civilian pointed to a woman's black robes and said: "Burn these, may Allah burn them. They burned my father, they burned my father."

	She added: "I wish he was with us now in this happy time."

	Small children gathered around a woman who said: "They killed my father. They killed my husband. They fired a mortar at my house. My husband was outside, he was hit and died."

	A man told a barber to shave off the long beard he was forced to grow under Isis rule, saying: "Cut it all off just to spite them." 

http://www.bbc.com/news/world-middle-east-37066304
	"I feel joy and [it is like a] dream I am dreaming. I cannot believe it, I cannot believe it. Things I saw no one saw," a woman said screaming and fainting, according to Reuters.

	Another woman thanked the fighters that had set them free: "You are our children, you are our heroes, you are the blood of our hearts, you are our eyes. Go out, Daesh [Arabic name for IS]!" 


------


https://www.jihadwatch.org/2017/08/muslim-cleric-america-has-created-isis-in-order-to-distort-islam
	Muslim cleric: “America has created ISIS in order to distort Islam”


https://www.jihadwatch.org/2017/08/california-muslim-cleric-says-isis-is-the-production-of-the-israeli-intelligence-to-demolish-islam-from-within
	California: Muslim cleric says “ISIS is the production of the Israeli intelligence…to demolish Islam from within”

------


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/70000-indian-muslim-clerics-issue-fatwa-against-isis-the-taliban-al-qaida-and-other-terror-groups-a6768191.html
	70,000 Indian Muslim clerics issue fatwa against Isis, the Taliban, al-Qaeda and other terror groups

	Clerics said the terror groups were 'not Islamic organisations' and said they were a threat to humanity


http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/london-attack-imans-no-funeral-prayers-terrorists-refuse-500-muslim-clerics-islam-isis-burial-khuram-a7776861.html
	London attack: 500 imams condemn terrorists and refuse to perform funeral prayer for 'vile murderers'

	Group of Muslim leaders coming together to outline renewed efforts to combat extremism



https://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/09/us/isis-threatens-muslim-preachers-who-are-waging-theological-battle-online.html
	Muslim Leaders Wage Theological Battle, Stoking ISIS’ Anger

	As the military and political battle against the Islamic State escalates, Muslim imams and scholars in the West are fighting on another front — through theology.

	Imam Suhaib Webb, a Muslim leader in Washington, has held live monthly video chats to refute the religious claims of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. In a dig at the extremists, he broadcast from ice cream parlors and called his talks “ISIS and ice cream.”

	Sheikh Hamza Yusuf, an American Muslim scholar based in Berkeley, Calif., has pleaded with Muslims not to be deceived by the “stupid young boys” of the Islamic State. Millions have watched excerpts from his sermon titled “The Crisis of ISIS,” in which he wept as he asked God not to blame other Muslims “for what these fools amongst us do.”

	...The Islamic State, however, has taken notice.

	The group recently threatened the lives of 11 Muslim imams and scholars in the West, calling them “apostates” who should be killed. The recent issue of the Islamic State’s online propaganda magazine, Dabiq, called them “obligatory targets,” and it said that supporters should use any weapons on hand to “make an example of them.”

	...Several of the targeted Muslim leaders said in interviews that, while they were taking the threat seriously, they had no intention of backing off. They have hired security guards and fortified their workplaces, and some keep guns at home.

	“It’s an honor to be denounced by ISIS,” said Imam Webb, who frequently engages young Muslims over social media, whether on YouTube, Facebook, Periscope or Snapchat. “I consider it one of my greatest accomplishments in life.”

	“It has only reinvigorated me,” he said, “to provide the antivenom to the poison of ISIS.”

------

http://www.mysanantonio.com/news/local/article/Iraq-War-veterans-see-Trump-s-travel-ban-as-10920474.php
	Iraq War veterans see Trump’s travel ban as harmful to U.S., Iraqi troops

	...Those who served in Iraq contend the ban and the president’s anti-Islamic rhetoric could erode the resolve of Iraqi troops, deter civilians from cooperating with government forces and supply fresh recruiting fodder for terror groups.

	Almanza, who first deployed to Iraq in 2003, recalled the early efforts of U.S. troops to build up the country’s military during the eight-year war. The Americans taught Iraqi soldiers how to fire artillery, set up checkpoints and conduct raids, and the daily interaction forged a kinship born of common purpose.

	“The Iraqis who fought beside us were just as important to me as my guys,” he said. “They were willing to die right beside us. That’s the kind of commitment that can only come from hope. But if we’re now telling them that they’re not welcome in our country, it gives them more reason to doubt our commitment. It will dampen their hope.”

	...Cesar Gutierrez, a Marine veteran of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, asserted that Trump has disregarded the sacrifices of Iraqi soldiers, interpreters and civilian personnel and the hazards they continue to face working with U.S. troops.

	...“You have to earn their trust and respect. Once you do, they’re with you all the way,” he said. “But what the ban does is label all Iraqis as the same. We’re now messing with their trust — with an entire nation’s trust, a nation that we’ve fought for for many years — and that’s going to undo a lot of what we’ve been trying to accomplish.”

	...Given that he risked his life on behalf of Americans in Iraq, Eesa finds Trump’s harsh attitude toward Muslims at once insulting and frustrating.

	“I feel betrayed. Not by the American people; by the new president,” he said. “Muslims are tired of being labeled terrorists. We want the same things as everyone else: a safe life, jobs, a good economy.”

	...But Eddie Rodriguez, who deployed to Iraq with the Marines in 2007 as part of the troop surge that reversed the gains of insurgent groups, faulted Trump for further endangering American forces in combat zones.

	“It’s easy for politicians to do this kind of thing because they’re not the ones who are shaking hands with the people who live in these countries,” said Rodriguez, 30, a social worker and veterans advocate in San Antonio. “The troops have to do that. What he’s doing is contradicting everything we’ve been trying to do, and it feeds into the propaganda of radical terrorist groups.”

	...Postings on pro-ISIS social media accounts in the wake of Trump’s order called it a “blessed ban” and suggested it would bolster the group’s recruiting.


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/03/world/asia/travel-ban-drives-wedge-between-iraqi-soldiers-and-americans.html
	President Trump’s Jan. 27 executive order has driven a wedge between many Iraqi soldiers and their American allies. Officers and enlisted men interviewed on the front lines in Mosul said they interpreted the order as an affront — not only to them but also to fellow soldiers who have died in the battle for Mosul.

	“An insult to their dignity,” said Capt. Abdul Saami al-Azzi, another officer with the counterterrorism force in Mosul. He said he was hurt and disappointed by a nation he had considered a respectful partner. “It is really embarrassing.”


	...The timing of the order hit the Iraqi military in Mosul like an incoming rocket. Iraqi forces have reached a pivotal moment, seizing half of Mosul and preparing to assault the remaining half — supported by American advisers, Special Operations forces and airstrikes by the United States-led coalition.

	Why, some soldiers asked, had Mr. Trump chosen this moment to lump together all Iraqis as mortal threats to America — soldiers, civilians and terrorists alike?

	“This decision by Trump blows up our liberation efforts of cooperation and coordination with American forces,” said Brig. Gen. Mizhir Khalid al-Mashhadani, a counterterrorism force commander in Mosul.

	...For some soldiers, those comments seemed to equate Iraqi soldiers — by virtue of their nationality and religion — with the very terrorists they were fighting.

	President Trump was “unjust and not right,” said Maj. Sabah al-Aloosi, 37, another counterterrorism force officer in Mosul. It is Iraqi soldiers, he said, “who are fighting terrorism on behalf of the world and sacrificing themselves.”

	...Before the Jan. 27 ban was announced, two counterterrorism force officers in Mosul said they had begun making plans to visit the United States after the battle for Iraq’s second-largest city.

	Captain Musawe, who had hoped to vacation in the United States, said he was not making any travel plans at the moment. “The decision by Trump has wasted my dreams,” he said.

	Major Aloosi said he even asked his American counterparts for advice about the visa process for Iraqi soldiers seeking to visit the “wonderful sights and tourism” he had seen on American TV programs. “But all that has vaporized because of the decision by Trump,” he said.

	General Mashhadani said that despite bitter feelings among many of the soldiers he commands, he continues to work closely, if under trying circumstances, with his American counterparts.

	“My American friends who are officers promised to let me in their country in case I decide to go there — even if they have to use illegal ways,” he said.

------


http://www.cincinnati.com/story/opinion/readers/2014/08/12/isis-practices-selective-reading-of-holy-book/13949055/
	ISIS practices selective reading of holy book


https://www.rand.org/blog/2017/07/isis-is-so-desperate-its-turning-to-the-drug-trade.html
	ISIS Is So Desperate It's Turning to the Drug Trade

	Libyan authorities accused al Qaeda of trying to smuggle 37 million tablets of the synthetic opiate Tramadol which were seized in Tripoli, March 3, 2011

https://books.google.com/books?id=dld2wJ2Z__4C&pg=PA118&lpg=PA118
	The Taliban have provided an Islamic sanction for farmers like Wali Jan to grow even more opium, even though the Koran forbids Muslims from producing or imbibing intoxicants. ...Rashid tells me without a hint of sarcasm, 'Opiu is permissible because it is consumed by kafirs [unbelievers] in the West and not by Muslims or Afghans.'

https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2015/02/08/afghanistan-opium-addiction-us-withdrawal/22851573/
	Afghans' addiction to opium ravages adults, infants

	...The domestic toll is heavy. The number of Afghans addicted to opium and other drugs has soared 60% since 2009 to as many as 1.6 million, or 5% of the population, the U.S. Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction reports.

	Most Afghans view opium as a medicine that treats everything from a headache to cancer. Often, it's the only palliative available in the rugged country's remote regions.

	...A pale-skinned, underweight woman at the hospital named Aisha Jan from the Jowzjan province in the north said she and her family fell into the trap of using opium to treat cancer.

	"My daughter had cancer, and we thought opium would cure her cancer," she said as her body shook from an opium craving that began before her daughter's illness. "She died a month after she was diagnosed."

	Jan said she has been trying to remain in the hospital for as long as possible so she won't relapse into drug use. "If I go back home, I will be addicted to opium once again," she said.


http://www.cincinnati.com/story/opinion/readers/2014/08/12/isis-practices-selective-reading-of-holy-book/13949055/
	...Where is the sense of humanity and respect for freedom of religion? The Prophet Muhammad beautifully stated in his letter to St. Catherine's monastery, condemning the persecution against Christians: "Verily I . . . and my followers defend them, because Christians are my citizens and by Allah, I hold out against anything that displeases them."

	Additionally, ISIS seems to exhibit selective reading and comprehension of the Holy Quran when it sets a distinct precedence for those who do not wish to become Muslim: "For you your religion, and for me, my religion" 

------


------


https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/2936468/fears-mount-mexican-drug-lords-will-help-isis-smuggle-nuke-into-the-us-hidden-inside-bales-of-marijuana/
	 NUCLEAR WASTED Fears mount Mexican drug lords will help ISIS smuggle NUKE into the US hidden inside bales of marijuana

	Experts say the powerful drug can 'shield' many of the signs of radiation


------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2015/12/11/how-thomas-jefferson-and-other-founding-fathers-defended-muslim-rights/
	Jefferson specifically mentioned Muslims when describing the broad scope of protections he intended by his legislation, which was passed in 1786.

	"What he wanted to do was get the state of Virginia out of the business of deciding which was the best religion, and who had to pay taxes to support it," said Spellberg, a professor of history and Islamic studies at the University of Texas at Austin.

	During the bill's debate, some legislators wanted to insert the term "Jesus Christ," which was rejected. Writing in 1821, Jefferson reflected that "singular proposition proved that [the bill's] protection of opinion was meant to be universal."

	He continued:

    	Where the preamble declares, that coercion is a departure from the plan of the holy author of our religion, an amendment was proposed, by inserting the word "Jesus Christ," so that it should read, "a departure from the plan of Jesus Christ, the holy author of our religion;" the insertion was rejected by a great majority, in proof that they meant to comprehend, within the mantle of its protection, the Jew and the Gentile, the Christian and Mahometan [Muslim], the Hindoo [Hindu], and Infidel of every denomination."

	Jefferson's opinions on religious liberty were heavily influenced by John Locke, as noted by James H. Hutson, writing in 2002 as chief of the Library of Congress's Manuscript Division:

    	In his seminal Letter on Toleration (1689), John Locke insisted that Muslims and all others who believed in God be tolerated in England. Campaigning for religious freedom in Virginia, Jefferson followed Locke, his idol, in demanding recognition of the religious rights of the "Mahamdan," the Jew and the "pagan." Supporting Jefferson was his old ally, Richard Henry Lee, who had made a motion in Congress on June 7, 1776, that the American colonies declare independence. "True freedom," Lee asserted, "embraces the Mahomitan and the Gentoo (Hindu) as well as the Christian religion."

    ...Opponents of Jefferson's proposal wrote letters to the Virginia Gazette, arguing that it would allow atheists, Muslims and Jews to hold office — to which evangelicals responded, “that’s right,” Ragosta said.

    ...During the North Carolina debate, anti-Federalist Henry Abbot argued that eliminating a religious test meant it would be possible "that pagans and deists, and Mahometans might obtain offices among us, and that the senators and representatives might all be pagans," as noted in Spellberg's book.

	Federalist James Iredell, dubbed "the ablest defender of the Constitution," then mounted his counter-argument — while also trying to convince skeptical delegates that it was highly unlikely citizens would elect officials with beliefs so out of the mainstream.

	"It is to be objected that the people of America may, perhaps, choose representatives who have no religion at all, and that pagans and Mahometans may be admitted into offices," Iredell said. "But how is it possible to exclude any set of men, without taking away that principle of religious freedom which we ourselves so warmly contend for?”

	...In 1765, while he was studying law, Jefferson purchased an English translation of the Koran. He later went on to criticize the religion as anti-science and anti-reason.

	Despite his personal opinions, however, Jefferson staunchly defended the right of Americans to hold any religious belief, no matter how absurd or wrong they seemed to him.

	"The legitimate powers of government extend to such acts only as are injurious to others," Jefferson wrote in "Notes on the State of Virginia," his only book. "But it does me no injury for my neighbor to say there are twenty gods, or no god. It neither picks my pocket nor breaks my leg."