https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-northkorea-idUSBRE94I09620130519
	May 19, 2013 / 12:22 PM / 4 years ago
	China seeks release of fishing boat seized by North Korea

	Tensions have been mounting between North Korea and China, its most important economic and political backer. Some Chinese banks have frozen out North Korea's main foreign exchange bank amid frustration in Beijing over Pyongyang's nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs.

	Ignoring international calls for restraint, North Korea fired a short-range missile from its east cost on Sunday, its fourth in two days, according to South Korea's Yonhap news agency.

	Other Chinese state media quoted the owner of the missing boat, Yu Xuejun, as saying North Korea was demanding 600,000 yuan ($97,600) for its safe return, along with its 16 crew. 


why would they do that? completely nuts



--------


http://www.newsweek.com/china-north-korea-trump-allies-economy-583883
	“China is looking at this as potentially a military threat, and thus having a need to continue supporting its allies no matter how unsavory those allies are with the North Korean regime.”

	It's of utmost importance to China to not lose ground to the U.S. , Dong said, even if it means defending a regime known for oppressing its people. 

	“China wants to reclaim its status as sort of the predominant power in east Asia, and in order to create that sort of perception they have to stand up for any ally in the region,” he said.


http://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/chinese-president-strikes-diplomatic-tone-american-tech-giants-n432596
	"On the part of the technology companies, they have to be very careful about this balance between access to the Chinese market and the increasing demand by Chinese policymakers that companies open up their systems and show them the inner workings of their software and devices," Dong told NBC News. "I think that's a very sensitive and problematic tradeoff."


http://www.businessinsider.com/xi-jinping-reminiscent-of-deng-not-mao-2013-11
	Mamta Badkar

	...Critics argue that Xi's efforts have gone toward consolidating his power, not just that of the Communist Party.

	The anti-corruption campaign, for instance, largely targeted Bo Xilai — whose political career was on a meteoric rise — and his allies.

	...Earlier this year, Arthur Dong, a professor of strategy and economics at Georgetown University, told Business Insider that he has heard of more Party indoctrination:

		"I met with a party member, who happens to be a high-ranking member of the party. I had lunch with him and what he expressed to me was all senior-level party members are being sent to an essentially re-education. They're being sent to the equivalent of their West Point and they're undergoing more party indoctrination, where they have to wear uniform.

		"He showed me a picture where they're donning their uniforms of Mao's long march. They're all being required to partake in this sort of party cleansing exercise, where they have to be reminded of the roots of their past, wear the uniforms of the long march, go through this sort of re-education process to remind them about party loyalty, and also to be faithful to the party's ideals."


Arthur Dong seems down on China


https://sipa.columbia.edu/faculty-research/faculty-directory/arthur-dong

CFO of some company now, a business guy


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China%E2%80%93North_Korea_relations
	Favorable views of North Korea among Chinese people appear to be receding as well. According to a 2014 BBC World Service Poll, 20% of Chinese people view North Korea's influence positively, with 46% expressing a negative view.[4]


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China%E2%80%93North_Korea_relations
	In 1979, the two countries signed the Sino-North Korean Mutual Aid and Cooperation Friendship Treaty, whereby China pledged to immediately render military and other assistance by all means to its ally against any outside attack.[12] This treaty was prolonged twice, in 1981 and 2001, with a validity until 2021.


this a problem? would make sense why China doesn't want war then...


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China%E2%80%93North_Korea_relations
	On 1 January 2009, Chinese President Hu Jintao and North Korean leader Kim Jong-il exchanged greetings and declared 2009 as the "year of China–DPRK friendship," marking 60 years of diplomatic relations between the two countries.[13]

	On 5 May 2013, North Korea "grabbed," according to Jiang Yaxian, a Chinese government official, another Chinese fishing boat in a series of impounding Chinese fishing boats.[2] "North Korea was demanding 600,000 yuan ($97,600) for its safe return, along with its 16 crew."[2] According to a New York Times article in December 2014, relations had reached a low point.[14]

	In March 2016 the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un visited a missile factory, which China strongly condemned, in a report by the state newspaper the People's Daily revealed that the North Korean politics causes instability on the Korean Peninsula and is comparable to the situation in Syria.[citation needed]

	As of 2017, Chinese President Xi Jinping has not met with Kim Jong-Un and he remains the only Chinese President not to meet with the leader of North Korea.[15]


So DPRK suddenly starts acting like an asshole to China--why?


http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-17476760
	22 March 2012
	Damaging coup rumours ricochet across China


http://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-politics-bo-idUSBRE96O01U20130725
	July 24, 2013
	China charges Bo Xilai with corruption, paves way for trial

	Megha Rajagopalan


related?


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China%E2%80%93North_Korea_relations
	The Foreign Minister of the People's Republic of China Yang Jiechi said that China "resolutely" opposed the 2013 North Korean nuclear test conducted by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.[17][18] The North Korean ambassador to China, Ji Jae Ryong, was personally informed of this position on 12 February 2013 in a meeting with Yang Jiechi.[17]

	In 2016, right after the North Korean nuclear test in January tensions between the PRC and the DPRK have further grown, the reaction of China was, "We strongly urge the DPRK side to remain committed to its denuclearization commitment, and stop taking any actions that would make the situation worse," spokesperson Hua Chunying said.[19] On 24 February 2016 the United States and China introduced new sanctions against the North Korean regime conducted within the UN context.



------


http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2017/04/18/asia-pacific/north-korea-china-defense-pact-proves-complicated-document/
	“There is no love lost in the China-North Korean relationship,” Bonnie Glaser, director of the China Power Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington said. “The relationship is stressed.”

	...Experts say that with each provocation by the North, debate has grown in China over Pyongyang’s shifting role — “strategic asset” or a “strategic liability” — and whether the time has come for Beijing to cut its erstwhile ally loose.

	“There is an intense debate in China over this question,” said Glaser. “There are deeply entrenched groups that view North Korea as a strategic asset.”

	These groups argue that the U.S. is the greater threat and that the North helps to distract Washington’s attention from issues that involve Chinese core interests, such as the South China Sea, she noted.

	But Glaser said “an increasingly vocal group of international scholars sees North Korea as a strategic liability. Xi Jinping has not yet taken a clear position, I’ve been told.”


http://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy-defence/article/2087320/china-not-obliged-defend-n-korea-if-its-attacked-say
	China is not obliged to help defend North Korea from military attack if the reclusive state developed nuclear weapons, according to Chinese diplomatic and military observers.


deal maybe voided by North Korea nuclear tests?


------


http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2016/11/197_210355.html
	A normative form of alliance involves signing a mutual defense treaty. While each partner agrees, explicitly or implicitly, to defend the other, all parties retain substantial discretion in the implementation of the agreement. In November 2010, for instance, North Korea shelled South Korea's Yeonpyeong Island, raising inter-Korean tension to the brink of war. According to former South Korean President Lee Myung-bak's memoir, then Chinese leader Hu Jintao's emissary, Dai Bingguo, flew to Pyongyang and sat down face-to-face with the late North Korean leader Kim Jong-il.

	Dai warned Kim: "If North Korea would first attack South Korea and, as a result, there were full-scale arms clashes, China wouldn't aid North Korea." 

	...Hours after the "uneventful" Chinese press briefing on the treaty anniversary, a true event happened when Chinese President Xi Jinping sent a congratulatory message to Kim Jong-un. As he was personally addressing the North Korean leader as "Comrade Kim," Xi said: "The China-North Korea friendly ties are a mutually precious treasure. It is the steadfast policy of the Chinese (Communist) party and the government to continue to deepen and develop the ties."

	In a separate congratulatory message to Xi, Kim said he would develop the North Korea-China friendly ties "to meet the demands of the time."

	That certainly sounded like a coded word. Perhaps that explains something about the unusually firm handshakes and warm back-cuddling in front of the international media between Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong-ho, at the ASEAN Regional Forum in Laos this week. 


http://www.chinafile.com/conversation/whats-best-way-trump-persuade-china-pressure-north-korea
	by Michael Swaine, Bruce Klingner, Zhu Feng, Ryan Mitchell, Francesco Sisci, John Delury, Carla Freeman, Chen Weihua, Shen Dingli, Seong-Hyon Lee

	China’s President Xi Jinping called U.S. President Donald Trump on Monday morning urging American restraint in reaction to North Korea. Tensions between the United States and North Korea have risen to new levels ever since Pyongyang’s April 16 failed missile test. Top U.S. officials have repeatedly warned Pyongyang against more provocations—a warning Pyongyang does not seem likely to heed. “We’ll be conducting more missile tests on a weekly, monthly and yearly basis,” a high-ranking North Korean official recently told the BBC. After that, Trump’s number two, U.S. Vice President Mike Pence, said that “The president and I have great confidence that China will properly deal with North Korea,” adding a reminder that Trump had earlier said. “if China is unable to deal with North Korea, the United States and our allies will.” Meanwhile, China’s trade with North Korea in the first quarter of 2017 has actually increased, by a whopping 37.4 percent from the same period last year. Will Beijing start enforcing sanctions? How can the U.S. persuade China to push Pyongyang to denuclearize—a stated goal of both great powers? —The Editors

http://www.cnn.com/2017/08/08/asia/china-north-korea-sanctions/index.html
	China willing to 'pay a price' for stronger North Korea sanctions

seems off?


https://foreignpolicy.com/2016/02/10/its-time-for-another-nixon-in-china-moment-north-korea-rocket-test-america-china-frustration-kim-jong-un/
	In the 1950s, the United States became obsessed with a burning question of extraordinary hubris: Who Lost China? No less nefarious a force in American political life than Senator Joseph McCarthy used this question as a sledgehammer to go off on his dark Quixotic quest for Communist agents lurking behind the windmills of Foggy Bottom. The careers of some of the Greatest Generation’s finest China hands were destroyed, and China studies and China policy suffered for decades as a result.

	The arrogance of that original question, implying as it did that it was one of “us” Americans who “lost” a country of hundreds of millions, opened the gates to the pathology of McCarthyism, predicated on the paranoid assumption that there must have been traitors in Washington who won China for Mao.


	...Seong-Hyon Lee, Research Fellow, Sejong University:

	Delury appears to echo a common American worldview that looks at the North Korean issue under the canopy of America’s China policy. Under this frame, Washington in fact yields to the notion that North Korea belongs to the Chinese sphere of influence. Thus, when North Korea engineers trouble, Americans blame it on China. It’s like when a dog bites a man, the man blames it on the dog’s owner, not the dog.

	This mentality helps us to understand why the United States came up with the “China card” in dealing with North Korea. Washington “outsourced” the task of dealing with North Korea to China, by inviting the latter to host the Six Party Talks, a multilateral platform aimed at North Korea’s denuclearization. With that, the United States settled down in the back seat, while China was elbowed into the driver’s seat. Every time the car veered off course, the driver got scolded.

	The widespread “North Korea is China’s problem to fix” narrative is a brilliant piece of U.S. public diplomacy that warrants serious soul-searching, because relying on the tactic of buck-passing goes against the very spirit of what America stands for.

	America’s North Korea policy, dubbed “strategic patience,” is a convenient recipe for ignoring North Korea, while Washington points fingers at China. Washington has been avoiding negotiations with Pyongyang, delegating the task to Beijing. China sees it as unfair. It’s in fact up to America, not China, to show leadership.

	Doing so serves American national interest. Globally speaking, America’s national interest has two pillars; one is to defend its current superpower status, the other is to safeguard its credibility. During his State of the Union address, Obama proclaimed: “When it comes to every important international issue, people of the world do not look to Beijing or Moscow to lead. They call us.” Obama was talking about American credibility. When people trust America and its leadership, America can continue its leading superpower status by sustaining the current global governance system, which it established and thus suits American interests. The world is watching how America deals with the North Korean challenge. America’s credibility and leadership is at stake.

	Washington’s current policy of outsourcing the challenge to China is also un-Biblical. Sure, dealing with a regime like North Korea is a dirty business, requiring patience and long-term commitment. It could be domestically unpopular too. It’s not everyone’s challenge. It takes a special country. It takes special leadership. And that’s America. In the New Testament’s Galatians 6:9, it says: “Let us not become weary in doing good.” After two decades of frustrating, fruitless negotiations, Washington felt disgusted with the Pyongyang regime and humiliated at the very idea of sitting across the negotiating table with North Koreans. But it cannot outsource the challenge to a country like China. America should lead the way. America should go back to look at the North Korean conundrum by thinking more deeply about its long-term national interest and by going back to the teachings of the Bible.


interesting


https://www.sas.upenn.edu/koreanstudies/events/sunny-seong-hyon-lee-debate-chinas-policy-shift-north-korea-why-evidence-not-evidence
	Sunny Seong-hyon Lee

	The speculation over China’s foreign policy shift on North Korea has been particularly feverish during this year’s Korean crisis owing to the fact that there are new leaders in Beijing and Pyongyang and many reports suggest the two former Cold War allies did not get along particularly well. Indeed, the world has lately been wondering whether China has finally lost patience with North Korea, as the rift between the duo have deepened since North Korea conducted its 3rd nuclear test on February 12, 2013, despite China’s repeated counsel against the move. Even President Obama said publicly that China was "recalculating" its stance on North Korea. The talk will review the validity of “evidence” that has shaped the recent debate on China’s policy shift on North Korea. Dr. Lee, fresh from Beijing, will go over “signs of change” on China’s North Korean policy, and eventually, conclude  that the available body of facts or information on China’s foreign policy shift on North Korea finds little ground for support. This means that a fundamental adjustment of Chinese policy on North Korea is not happening currently and there is no indication to expect it in any near future.

ehh seems like they had a big shift recently, no?

condemming their nuke program earlier too


------


http://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2017/08/01/asia-pacific/nhk-video-casts-doubt-north-korean-icbms-re-entry-capabilities/

NKs missiles not working so well?


------


https://www.lawfareblog.com/us-considers-north-korea-strike-lets-not-forget-china-has-promised-defend-north-korea-armed-attack

lawfare blog wants them to follow the treaty to a T
	
	Nonetheless, a number of Chinese scholars have argued that China is not obligated to defend North Korea under the treaty if the U.S. launches a preemptive strike on North Korea’s nuclear weapons programs because North Korea’s development of nuclear weapons relieves China of its military obligations. This interpretation is a stretch. It is true that Article 1 commits both countries to “continue making every effort to protect peace in Asia and across the world as well as the safety of each country’s citizens.” But there is no evidence that this treaty language was meant to prevent the development of a given weapons technology. North Korean officials, furthermore, have justified their nuclear weapons program as a self-defense measure after the recent U.S. strike on Syria.


pretty sure they violated the "effort to protect peace in Asia" part


------

https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/east-asia/2014-08-18/pointless-punishment
	Pointless Punishment
	How the Sanctions on Russia Will Hurt Asia

	By Ely Ratner and Elizabeth Rosenberg

	...Yet Russian President Vladimir Putin seems unlikely to back down. In fact, the conflict has only escalated, most recently, with Russia reportedly deploying troops along the Ukrainian border. If the crisis worsens, the United States might be tempted to continue slapping more and more sanctions on its nemesis. But it will eventually have to face the reality that further Russian isolation might be more costly than it is worth. U.S. allies in Europe are facing substantial economic costs as a result of their participation in the latest efforts to deter Putin. And no less significant, further U.S.-led sanctions will 


https://www.vox.com/world/2017/8/10/16125076/china-north-korea-donald-trump-xi-jinping-kim-jong-un
	China's North Korea problem is worse than ours
	Aug 10, 2017, 1:40pm EDT 

	Ely Ratner

	It's always hard to understand what the North Koreans are thinking, but I think part of it is that, yes, they probably think that because China is so concerned about regime collapse in North Korea, they won't be willing to go all the way to destabilize the [Kim Jong Un] regime.

	But at the same time, it's important to note that part of what North Korea has been doing over the past couple of years is trying to improve their capabilities. We often use the word "provocation" to describe North Korea's missile tests, and in a sense they are, but the regime is legitimately trying to improve its missile capabilities and not necessarily focused on defying China or the US or the international community. 


------

https://twitter.com/CBSThisMorning/status/882556636170252288
	Jul 5
	“China and Russia now say they oppose any attempt to resolve the North Korean Crisis by force or sanctions.”


https://twitter.com/benstracy/status/882777146116251649
	The U.S. wants more sanctions on N. Korea. China and Russia have other ideas:


http://www.cbsnews.com/news/chinese-government-urges-restraint-after-north-korea-missile-launch/
	Tong Zhao is an expert on nuclear weapons policy in Asia who spoke with CBS News.

	"I don't think on the Chinese side there is any room for significantly tougher sanctions," Zhao said.

	We asked Zhao about whether there is a perception in the U.S. that China is simply not trying hard enough and not putting enough pressure on North Korea

	"China doesn't think that's a fair understanding of the situation," he told us. "If China steps up its sanctions, it's totally possible that North Korea will increase its threat to China."

	China has been unwilling to entirely cut off crude oil supplies to North Korea because that would likely cause the North Korean regime to collapse. China fears that it would leave Kim Jong Un with nothing to lose and could start a nuclear war on the Korean Peninsula. 


http://carnegietsinghua.org/2016/04/27/why-china-should-have-dialogues-with-u.s.-and-south-korea-on-thaad-pub-63459
	Tong Zhao

	In recent months Chinese official reaction to the U.S. and South Korean decision to move forward on THAAD negotiations has been particularly harsh. There is even discussion in China that if Washington and Seoul go ahead and deploy THAAD, China may need to further build up its nuclear capability, risking a counter-reaction from the United States. Avoiding this kind of negative action-reaction cycle is critical for regional stability. It is also a necessary precondition for these countries to work together to address the more pressing security challenge faced by everyone: North Korea’s growing nuclear threat.


sounds right to me

http://carnegietsinghua.org/2017/01/11/u.s.-russian-nuclear-remarks-challenge-chinese-posture-pub-67757
	From a long-term perspective, ultimate global disarmament has always been China’s goal. For its own security and global stability, China, as a responsible power, should play a positive leadership role in such a crucial project for world peace and adhere to a cool-headed, prudent, and well-thought-out nuclear policy. Nuclear powers like the United States and Russia should also reflect on their own nuclear policies and refrain from becoming negative examples.


http://carnegietsinghua.org/2017/02/10/china-s-north-korea-calculus-under-trump-pub-67937
	Tong was not surprised that Trump has indicated that he will increase pressure on China to help tackle the nuclear threat. But he argued that further pressure could lead to erratic and dangerous responses from North Korea and warned that China has no interest in turning a nuclear capable Pyongyang into an enemy. 


Russia nuclear blackmailing everyone with NK?


------

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/analysis-not-likely-china-will-step-up-on-north-korea/
	Analysis: "Not likely" China will step up on North Korea

	...CBS News foreign correspondent Ben Tracy says it is "not likely at all" that China will step up when it comes to the North Korea crisis. 

	China is in a unique position since North Korea depends on China for 90 percent of its trade. But it's unclear how much North Korea would even listen to any words from China, Tracy said.

	Kim Jong Un's regime is angry at China for going along with tough new sanctions the United Nations Security Council imposed last week, but Beijing could cut off North Korea's oil supply -- which could cause the regime to collapse, Tracy said. 

	China fears refugees streaming into their country.



-----

http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/has-it-ever-been-bad-north-korea-yes-actually-n790661
	Otto Warmbier, a 22-year-old American student, was released from North Korean custody after serving 17 months of his 15-year sentence for allegedly trying to steal a propaganda poster. His departure left three American citizens detained in North Korea. Relations between Kim Jong-un and President Donald Trump were further strained when Warmbier died shortly after returning to the United States in a coma. The Warmbier family did not say how Otto died. 


Seeems that NK hates, deeply mistruts U.S., sees a CIA spook under every rock, thinks U.S. is ultimate boogeyman.

So even if China were working with U.S., saying so publicly would be a disaster, or at least bad (depending on China's excuse/alabi for working with U.S.) if it makes NK suspicious China working with "imperialists" to undermine their crummy regime.

So NK by its very existence helps divide the U.S. and China.

and apparently Trump would never know that because he doesn't listen to USIC


-------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Korean_Central_News_Agency
	The Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) is the state news agency of North Korea that was established on December 5, 1946. The agency portrays the views of the North Korean government for foreign consumption.


so its what the North koreans want other countries to think?

https://kcnawatch.co/newstream/1502319758-21082223/is-russia-sightless-or-is-it-mimicking-blind-researcher-of-institute-for-international-studies/
	KCNA WATCH

	A user-friendly interface for viewing NK media

	Is Russia Sightless or Is It Mimicking Blind: Researcher of Institute for International Studies

	...The DPRK's ICBM, a noble fruition of its great policy of simultaneously developing the economic construction and the building of nuclear force, is clearly recorded in space as a pronoun of defence of international justice and peace, both in name and reality.

	But only Russia is making a far-fetched assertion, denying this stark fact unanimously acknowledged by the world community, while feigning blind and deaf.

	Russia, a country bordering the Korean peninsula, is calling the DPRK's ICBM a medium-range ballistic rocket with 681 km of height and 732 km of distance. This is utterly ironical.

	...The U.S., situated in the American continent across the ocean, dares not deny the fact even though it is reluctant more than others to acknowledge the DPRK's success in the ICBM launch. A big question is how come the ICBM of the DPRK is taken as medium-range ballistic rocket by Russia, a country very close to the DPRK.

	Another question is that Russia, which will be grouchy if it is ranked second in military standings, is making desperate efforts to make its far-fetched assertions sound plausible while misusing even the name of the Defence Ministry.

	...However, Russia, which had showed bravery as if it was going to hinder the adoption of the "resolution sanctions" on the DPRK, boarded the ship operated by the U.S. all of a sudden to be "complimented" by Trump. This is quite enough for the world to guess what was the true aim sought by Russia in insisting that the ICBM of the DPRK was a medium-range ballistic rocket.

	The far-fetched assertion of Russia has become an engine that heartened the DPRK to work for more launches of ICBM and compelled it to take new measures of action.

	It will be clear to Russia itself whether it is really the blind or is feigning the blind.


------

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/wait-but-why/visiting-north-korea_b_4256519.html
	The government lies to the outside world. The government lies to the people. The press lies to the people. The people lie to each other. The tour guides lie to tourists. It’s intense.

	The lies range from big things — the government hammers away at the message that the U.S. is preparing to attack North Korea, the press depicts South Korea as a suffering and American-occupied country, the leaders’ speeches talk about North Korea being the envy of the world with the highest quality of life — to tiny things — we met a soldier at one point we were told was a colonel, and after he left, a retired army major on my tour told me that he had studied North Korean army uniforms and that the soldier was in fact a captain.

	...The government’s biggest fear with visitors is that they sneak off at some point and take photos of something they’re not supposed to see, so this island location (with guards surrounding the hotel) is perfect. We were never let out of our guides’ sight during the day and told that we weren’t to leave the hotel at night under any circumstance.



------


https://www.forbes.com/sites/ralphjennings/2017/06/26/china-and-the-u-s-cooling-their-cooperation-to-restrain-north-korea/#5f824b2d11e9
	Give the world’s two superpowers credit for effort but don’t expect a whole lot more. Since the presidents of China and the United States met for their first time in April, they’ve spoken the language of cooperation to hobble North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs spearheaded by the enigmatic leader Kim Jong-un. To appease China, which doesn't want the Kim regime to collapse and leave a power vacuum on its border, a senior U.S. admiral had said the United States wants to bring North Korea not to its “knees,” just its “senses.” China reportedly planned to cut the flow of petroleum to North Korea in a sanction-like gesture likely to win favor with Washington.

	But Trump shows signs of wanting more out of his cooperation with China, especially now as everyone’s asking whether 22-year-old American student Otto Warmbier was intentionally hurt in North Korea before his release -- and death a week later. North Korea had detained him for a year on suspicion of stealing a propaganda poster. “(Trump) commented personally…that he continues to be very troubled by what happened to Otto Warmbier and would like to see China do more,” White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer told a briefing Friday.

Trump making China U.S. cooperation harder?


https://www.forbes.com/sites/ralphjennings/2017/06/08/north-korea-will-step-up-missile-tests-despite-growing-chinese-and-u-s-pressure/#3938db382b55
	First U.S. President Donald Trump moved U.S. naval units into waters near North Korea to dissuade the mysterious authoritarian state from developing nukes. Then in April he got North Korea’s best friend China sort of to join the cause. China responded with reported moves to cut fuel aid, threatening the chief source of Pyongyang’s crude oil, and restrict imports of North Korean coal. You’re supposed to imagine now that the North Korean government of Kim Jong-un will feel scared and throttle nuclear weapons development and missile tests that have totaled nine this year to date.

	...Kim’s people have never liked the United States and got all the more irked in April when U.S. President Donald Trump’s government sent an aircraft carrier and nuclear submarine near the Korean Peninsula. But suddenly China, a fellow Communist benefactor of North Korea since the 1950s, is threatening its own sanctions and supporting a separate U.N. Security Council list, such as asset freezes and travel bans, that got longer last week. North Korea’s foreign ministry “openly and directly criticized” China's role in the U.N. resolution, Pollack says. 

So China and U.S. both move on NK, cooperating

	But North Korea may perceive too little “trust” between China and the United States to put the Kim government at risk and pressure it into denuclearization talks, says Leif-Eric Easley, assistant professor of international studies at Ewha University in Seoul. So bombs away.


but NK sees as a bluff, calls?


	...Ironically, the May 9 election of South Korean President Moon Jae-in may further escalate nuclear missile development in the north. Moon advocates engaging North Korea rather than resisting it through a closer military alliance with the United States. (Moon just suspended further deployment THAAD.) But his ideas have created no “honeymoon” for relations between the two, according to Easley.

	“The pace of the DPRK testing schedule suggests that the Kim regime wants to demonstrate a nuclear-capable ICBM before engaging in meaningful talks,” Easley says.


Moon doing his own things, gives them more time

seems like they don't feel threatened if they feel opposition is divided?



------

https://www.cnbc.com/2017/07/04/china-russia-ties-reaffirmed-after-xi-jinping-and-vladimir-putin-meet.html

Xi chumming up to Putin?


------


https://www.cnbc.com/2017/08/10/us-only-option-on-n-korea-nuclear-threat-wesley-clark-commentary.html
	China's behind-the-scenes influence has also been diminished by Kim Jong Un's repeated purges of members of his government and family who have close ties to China or, like his brother, might replace him.


this is interesting


was this planned?


------


https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-08-10/why-some-u-s-ex-spies-don-t-buy-the-russia-story
	Why Some U.S. Ex-Spies Don't Buy the Russia Story


This and the India-China dispute--Russia trying coercion?

------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Korea's_illicit_activities

NK counterfieighting chinese currency, selling drugs in China


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Korea%27s_illicit_activities#Room_39
	In August 2014, Yun Tae Hyong, a senior representative of North Korea's Korea Daesong Bank, which is suspected of being under control of Room 39,[31] was reported to have defected to Russia taking $5 million with him.[32]

NK illegal ops guy defects to Russia


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Korea%27s_illicit_activities#Arms_trade
	North Korea has a known track record in proliferating nuclear and missile technology and in 2001, missile sales came to $560 million.[1] Following its 2006 nuclear test, international sanctions have sought to limit or prevent North Korea from exporting various types of arms, materials, and technology.[25] Prior to UN sanctions however, countries such as Japan and the United States took unilateral steps to curb such activities.

NK exporting weapons tech

	In 2009, three vessels were intercepted which were carrying North Korean weapons. Western and Israeli intelligence officials believed the weapons were destined for Hezbollah and Hamas.[26]:7

	In December 2009, Thailand intercepted a charter jet from Pyongyang carrying 35 tons of conventional weapons, including surface-to-air missiles.[25]

	In 2012, the U.N. reported that 445 North Korean-made graphite cylinders (which can be used to produce ballistic missiles) were seized from a Chinese freighter at the South Korean port of Busan on their way to Syria.[25]


arming terrorists


------


https://web.archive.org/web/20150924185342/http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/07/17/north-korea-weapons-trade_n_3610668.html
	MIDDLE EAST

	Late last year, U.N. diplomats reported that 445 North Korean-made graphite cylinders, capable of being used to produce ballistic missiles, were seized in May from a Chinese freighter ship at the South Korean port of Busan on their way to Syria.

	In December 2009, Thailand intercepted a charter jet from Pyongyang carrying 35 tons of conventional weapons, including surface-to-air missiles. Thai authorities reported that they were headed for Iran, a major North Korean weapons missile and weapons client.

	In October 2007, propellant blocks that could be used to power Scud missiles were seized from a ship heading to Syria, according to a report by a 2012 U.N. expert panel.

	AFRICA

	Pyongyang has tried also to sell shorter-range missiles and Soviet-vintage rockets and guns to customers in Africa. There have been reports in recent years of seizures of shipments heading to Eritrea, Republic of Congo and Burundi.

	In November 2009, tank parts and equipment bound for the Republic of Congo were reportedly found in South Africa.

	In three separate incidents in 1999 and 2000, missile parts and components were found to be on their way to Libya.

	In 1996, artillery rockets and Scud missile components were reportedly found in Switzerland and bound for Egypt.

	MYANMAR

	Washington says one of the contracts between Myanmar's former ruling junta and North Korea was for Pyongyang to help Myanmar build medium-range, liquid-fueled ballistic missiles.

	In June 2009, Japan's Daily Yomiuri newspaper reported three arrests over an alleged attempt, on instructions from North Korea, to illegally export to Myanmar a magnetic measuring device believed necessary for long-range ballistic missiles.

	CUBA

	On Tuesday, Panamanian President Ricardo Martinelli said the 14,000-ton Chong Chon Gang, which had left Cuba for North Korea, was carrying missiles and other arms hidden beneath a cargo of sugar. He revealed a picture of a green tube that an expert said appears to be a horizontal antenna for radar used to guide missiles fired by an air-defense system.

	Cuba's Foreign Ministry said 240 metric tons of "obsolete defensive weapons" had been shipped out to be repaired and returned to the island. It said the cargo included two Volga and Pechora anti-aircraft missile systems, nine missiles "in parts and spares," two Mig-21Bis and 15 engines for those airplanes.


they're already trying to give missiles to the rest of the world

------

https://www.reuters.com/article/us-korea-korea-un-idUSBREA2A08020140311
	North Korea has developed sophisticated ways to circumvent U.N. sanctions, including the suspected use of its embassies to facilitate an illegal trade in weapons, a United Nations report issued on Tuesday said.

	It said North Korea was also making use of more complicated financial countermeasures and techniques "pioneered by drug-trafficking organizations" that made tracking the isolated state's purchase of prohibited goods more difficult. 

sanctions for weapons trade have a tough time working

	...In some of the most comprehensive evidence presented publicly against Pyongyang's embassies, the report said the missions in Cuba and Singapore were suspected of organizing an illegal shipment of Cuban fighter jets and missile parts that were seized on a North Korean container ship in Panama last July.

	It included secret North Korean documents addressed to the ship's captain which offered detailed instructions on how to load and conceal the illegal weapons shipment, and make a false declaration to customs officers in Panama. 

	Panama seized the Chong Chon Gang ship for smuggling Soviet-era arms, including two MiG-21 jet fighters, under thousands of tons of sugar. After the discovery, Cuba acknowledged it was sending "obsolete" Soviet-era weapons to be repaired in North Korea and returned to Cuba. 

	"Load the containers first and load the 10,000 tons of sugar (at the next port) over them so that the containers cannot be seen," the document, translated from Korean, said. 

trying to secretly transport MIG fighters

	...North Korea is also still dependent on foreign suppliers for its missile programs, the report said, referring to a long-range rocket salvaged by South Korea that contained parts originating from China, the United States, the former Soviet Union, South Korea, the United Kingdom and Switzerland. The rocket was fired out to sea in December 2012. 


interesting, got its parts from all over


------

http://www.foxnews.com/world/2017/03/09/north-korea-tried-to-sell-nuclear-weapon-material.html
	North Korea tried to sell nuclear-weapon material

	..."Lithium-6 is ideal, not only for making tritium for boosting fission devices, but also for directly fueling advanced weapons—including thermonuclear bombs," said Henry Sokolski, a former Pentagon official who heads the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center, a Washington think tank.

	Lithium also has nonmilitary applications, particularly in producing batteries, lubricants and medicines, nuclear experts said. North Korea is believed to have significant natural deposits of the metal in its soil.

hmmm


http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2009/nov/19/sokolski-from-russia-with-disdain/
	SOKOLSKI: From Russia with disdain

	Where did Iran get this technology? The Guardian reporter that broke the story points to Russia. As he notes, the IAEA has been trying to get Iran to turn over state’s evidence about a Russian nuclear weapons implosion expert’s visit there several years ago. The agency’s concern here, though, is not just historical. In late September, Israeli and British papers revealed that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu flew to Moscow and personally handed Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin a highly classified list of specific Russian scientists that the Israelis believe are still helping Iran’s nuclear weapons program.

	...Given the political imperative to stop Iran from getting the bomb, you’d think these reports would knock most officials back on their heels. Yet, when asked about them, most U.S. officials are reticent. The IAEA documents, they note, only covered developments through 2004. They have not seen the Israeli list. Finally, even if true, it is unlikely, they say, that the Russian government was knowingly involved.

	Yet, when pressed that Russia had to know of the movement of its own weapons experts — a point Mr. Netanyahu is reported to have made to Mr. Putin — some officials open up: Of course, they are concerned, they confide, but their hands are tied since we must cooperate with Russia. 

	...Why would Moscow want to do this? In our diplomats’ eyes, Russia is to Iran’s nuclear missile programs what China is to North Korea’s — the indispensable player that Washington must woo. Could it be that Moscow sees an advantage in being in such a position? If we were serious about working with Russia to block Iran from getting the bomb, we should want to find out and even debate the matter publicly. Making that happen, however, would require us to subordinate our desire to finalize more cooperative and nuclear arms agreements with Moscow. For most in Washington, that’s one idea that’s still off the table. 


http://www.nationalreview.com/article/425519/iran-deal-omission-we-still-can-fix-henry-sokolski
	If we want to close the door on possible nuclear Irans elsewhere, we’d be wise to turn our attention to the proliferation risks such power reactors pose. The good news is that what might help most in addressing these risks — remote automated surveillance that can be updated 24/7 — is something the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has already secured at Natanz and many of the other nuclear sites it inspects around the globe. The problem is that we haven’t yet insisted on such surveillance at Bushehr and apparently are not inclined to do so.

	It’s difficult to understand why.

http://www.nationalreview.com/energy-week/388718/plutonium-rich-asia-henry-sokolski


Skolkosi sounds like he knows what's up


http://www.nationalreview.com/article/340465/after-north-koreas-nuclear-test-henry-sokolski
	Rather than support Tokyo’s and Seoul’s cravings to develop nuclear-weapons options — appetites that are sure to spike even higher now with North Korea’s test explosion — the United States should use its still-considerable influence to ensure nonproliferation and strategic security in the region. How? By having President Obama endorse Gerald Ford’s, Jimmy Carter’s, and George W. Bush’s pronouncements that plutonium recycling is unnecessary to promote nuclear power, and by publicly calling on China — the real driver of nuclear angst in the region — to join the United States and Russia in any further nuclear-weapons-reduction effort.


I think?

http://www.nationalreview.com/article/344746/pyongyang-not-our-only-nuclear-worry-henry-sokolski
	Pyongyang Is Not Our Only Nuclear Worry

	As President Obama struggles to halt North Korea’s and Iran’s further “peaceful” production of nuclear explosive materials, he needs to take care that he doesn’t stimulate the nuclear-fuel-making aspirations of two American allies — Japan and South Korea.

	Unlike Iran and North Korea, which are each generating several bombs’ worth of nuclear-weapons fuel a year, Japan may open a plant that can produce eight tons of plutonium a year — enough to make 1,000 to 2,000 nuclear weapons annually. That’s at least as many weapons as are in the entire U.S. operationally deployed nuclear force.


http://www.nationalreview.com/article/253792/getting-serious-about-north-koreas-nukes-henry-sokolski
	What’s more worrisome is that North Korea is almost certain to put its enrichment and reactor technology on the world market, just as it helped Syria make its plutonium-producing reactor and has helped Iran, Egypt, and Pakistan with their nuclear-capable-rocket programs. China and Iran helped facilitate the Syrian-reactor effort. One can only wonder what role those states might play in helping North Korea hawk its new nuclear wares.


idk, he tries to downplay NK having nukes? odd


https://www.wsj.com/articles/north-korea-and-americas-nuclear-dilemma-1489080384
	The main focus should be on how to rid the North of the Kim clan and to unify under terms acceptable to the South. Without that, no military or diplomatic measure—including redeployment of nuclear weapons—can fully protect the U.S. and its allies against the North Korean nuclear threat.


says U.S. shouldn't redeploy tactical nukes to NK, but should focus on regime change?


http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/middle_east-jan-june08-nuclear_04-25/

interesting, Sokolski trying to say NK helping Syra with a nuclear reactor means Syria is trying to start a nuclear weapons program?


------


http://www.cnn.com/2017/08/11/politics/us-north-korea-strike-first/index.html
	How the US would strike first against North Korea

	By Zachary Cohen, CNN

	There is no military solution, there's only a negotiated one," he said.


Why is Zacharay Cohen saying this now?

Also by Cohen:

http://www.cnn.com/2017/08/02/politics/pentagon-state-department-proposal-arming-ukraine/index.html
	US considers option of arming Ukraine 

	Washington (CNN)The Pentagon and State Department have sent plans to supply arms to Ukraine to the White House for approval, according to reports by The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal -- a prospect that would deeply unsettle Moscow at a time of chilled relations between the US and Russia.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/15/politics/donald-trump-classified-information/index.htm
	What Trump has said about sharing classified information

	A stunning report by The Washington Post Monday said President Donald Trump revealed highly classified information to the Russian foreign minister and ambassador during last week's meeting at the White House.

	If proven true, that disclosure would mean Trump violated a key diplomatic principle for which he repeatedly hammered Democratic rival Hillary Clinton during the 2016 campaign.

	National security adviser H.R. McMaster said in a statement provided by White House press secretary Sean Spicer following the disclosure that Trump and the officials, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Russian Ambassador to the US Sergey Kislyak, discussed "common threats."

	...CNN has not independently verified The Washington Post's report that Trump relayed code-word information jeopardizing a critical source of intelligence on ISIS, but Trump's criticism of Clinton's handling of classified information during the campaign are well documented and add a sense of irony to Monday's reporting.


http://www.cnn.com/2017/05/16/politics/trump-revelations-russia-allies-impact/index.html
	US allies taken aback by intel sharing revelation

	By Zachary Cohen and Nicole Gaouette, CNN

	"It's a big deal, and we want to make sure sensitive information is handled properly," a European diplomat told CNN, adding that the country represented by the diplomat would not cut communications with the US entirely but could potentially reassess what information is transmitted at the political level.

	...The information that "endangered cooperation from an ally that has access to the inner workings of the Islamic State," according to the Post, was reportedly so sensitive that details were withheld from other international partners and restricted even within the US government.

	Trump's national security adviser, H.R. McMaster, said Tuesday that he stands by his previous statement on The Washington Post report -- he said the story "as reported is false" -- adding, "The premise of that article is false that in any way the President had a conversation that was inappropriate or that resulted in any kind of lapse in national security."

	McMaster said he has not spoken to foreign nations regarding the reports and intelligence sharing.


https://www.military1.com/military-weapons/article/1542314014-size-matters-is-the-us-navy-really-too-small/
	By Zachary Cohen
	CNN

	For decades, the United States has had the world's largest and most advanced naval fleet, positioning ships and aircraft carriers in strategic locations across the globe to protect national interests and facilitate free trade.

	But as rival nations, such as China and Russia, expand their own naval capabilities, and with China's increasingly aggressive posture in the South China Sea, GOP presidential candidates are warning voters that America's dominance of the world's oceans could end unless lawmakers add significantly more ships to its arsenal to bring the fleet size closer to historic levels.


http://www.cnn.com/2015/12/08/politics/amnesty-international-isis-weapons-u-s-/index.html
	Amnesty report: ISIS armed with U.S. weapons

	By Zachary Cohen, CNN


http://www.cnn.com/2017/07/27/politics/derek-harvey-removed-nsc-trump-middle-east-adviser/index.html
	Trump adviser appointed by Flynn ousted from NSC

	Updated 7:12 PM ET, Thu July 27, 2017

	"This has been work of vital importance to our country, and my departure comes with mixed emotions. In addition to the criticality of the mission, the people I have worked with in the NSC and the White House make this a tough decision," Harvey said. "I am excited about the opportunities to advance American interests in the Middle East under President Trump's leadership, and I look forward to shouldering greater responsibilities in support of the President."

	But while Harvey's future in the administration remains unclear, a spokesperson for the NSC confirmed that his ouster was not the result of a mutual decision, telling reporters it was fair to say he was "removed."

	An Arabic-speaking intelligence officer with a Ph.D, Harvey served as the head of the US military cell examining the insurgency in Iraq in 2003.

	It was Harvey who first laid out for President George W. Bush at the White House in the winter of 2004 the real scale and nature of the Sunni insurgency at a time when the Bush administration wouldn't use the word "insurgency" because it implied they were facing something much more serious than the "dead-enders" Vice President Dick Cheney was then publicly talking about.


------

http://www.koreaherald.com/view.php?ud=20170615000944
	 North Korean leader Kim Jong-un seems to feel “extremely nervous” about the allies’ possible clandestine operation to eliminate him, South Korea’s intelligence agency told lawmakers Thursday. 



------

http://nationalinterest.org/feature/what-if-america-assasinated-kim-jong-un-20108?page=2
	Daniel R. DePetris

	One hopes that all of this talk is more of political gamesmanship to goad the Chinese into cooperating with the United States, and nothing more.


http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-skeptics/will-the-russia-sanctions-bill-strip-trump-his-power-21176
	Will the Russia Sanctions Bill Strip Trump of His Power?

	Daniel R. DePetris


http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/the-hawks-are-at-it-again-on-afghanistan_us_58dbfb06e4b07f61a2bb8aca
	Daniel DePetris
	The Hawks Are At It Again on Afghanistan

	Earlier this month, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer told reporters the Trump administration was reviewing U.S. policy in Afghanistan to determine whether America could do anything more to increase pressure on the Islamic State. Predictably, one of the options at the top of the list is the deployment of several thousand additional U.S. troops to accelerate the training and mentoring of the Afghan national security forces[EK1] —a mission critics of the previous administration claimed was undermanned, under-resourced, and undermined since U.S. forces began withdrawing in the latter half of 2011.

	Writing in the Washington Post this month, U.S. Sens. John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) state that “[i]nstead of trying to win, we have settled for just trying not to lose.” Retired Gen. John Allen—the former commander of all U.S. forces in Afghanistan—and defense analyst Michael O’Hanlon make a similar point, arguing that a few thousand additional American troops will go a long way toward completing the training and equipping mission cut short by what they view as a premature withdrawal.


http://thehill.com/blogs/pundits-blog/international/343113-us-russian-relations-should-move-away-from-politics-and-move
	US-Russian relations should move away from politics and move towards diplomacy

	By Daniel DePetris

	...Indeed if Russia hawks had their way, contacts with Russian officials would be minimized, the U.S. would double down instead of deescalate, and Putin would be reminded daily that the U.S. is the much stronger world power that can get by even without the Kremlin's help.



------


https://web.archive.org/web/20170713203842/http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/north-korea-kim-jong-un-us-assassination-4-july-missile-launch-testing-a7837176.html
	Wednesday 12 July 2017

	The US had a clear shot at killing Kim Jong-un on 4 July - here's why it didn't strike

	'They had a very easy shot at killing Kim and didn't'

    Alex Lockie

    When North Korea launched its first intercontinental ballistic missile in the early-morning hours of 4 July, US military and intelligence personnel watched for a full 70 minutes, a source told The Diplomat's Ankit Panda.

	During that time, North Korean leader Kim Jong-un smoked cigarettes and strolled around the launchpad under the US's gaze.

	The US knew North Korea was in the final stages of building an ICBM after a recent rocket-engine test. The US knew North Korea liked to test missiles on the American Independence Day to send a message. The US knew this missile was different from any it had seen before, and the US knew it could destroy it with a variety of precision-fire platforms in the region. Importantly, the US also had Kim in its crosshairs for over an hour — and did nothing.

	Those facts speak volumes about the security climate in the Koreas.


a warning to Mr. Un?

	...By letting North Korea know it watched Kim as he prepared for one of his country's most provocative missile tests ever, Baker says, the US may have sent two powerful messages.

	The decision fit with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson's statement that the US wanted “to bring Kim Jong-un to his senses, not his knees” and that regime change was not the US's ultimate goal.

	But regime security is the reason North Korea wants long-range nuclear weapons in the first place.

	If the US demonstrates it's not intent on killing Kim, that could communicate that there's “no need to continue” the missile programme, according to Baker.

	But “if the program is continued,” Baker said, the US showed it could “strike it and Kim.” Though North Korea varies and tries to hide its launch points, the US tracks them vigorously, and footage of the launches always shows Kim nearby.


some diplomacy already?

you can have regime security so long as you don't go crazy with ICBMS and nukes...

	Perhaps rather than kill Kim and trigger a North Korean response, which could be massive, the US elected to signal that the best path to regime security would be to stay indoors and not play around near dangerous rocket engines, which have a habit of blowing up.


------

http://www.businessinsider.com/kim-jong-un-smoke-cigarrette-icbm-north-korea-2017-7
	North Korea's July 4 test of an intercontinental ballistic missile shocked the world by displaying how advanced and potent the missile forces of the hermit kingdom had become.

	But a short video clip laid bare another shocking reality: North Korean missile forces allowed Kim Jong Un, the supreme leader of the country, to smoke a cigarette feet from the base of an untested, liquid-fueled rocket engine.

	In the clip, first spotted by Ankit Panda, the Senior Editor of the Diplomat, Kim casually puffs a cigarette as the missile is positioned onto the launch pad. North Korea's fueling practices of missiles has raised concern before, as liquid fuel is volatile and dangerous in even the most controlled settings.

	In 1980, a US Titan II liquid-fueled missile exploded in the silo due to a single socket falling out of place. Today the US uses solid fuel for its rocket engines.


------

http://www.businessinsider.com/north-korea-donald-trump-kim-jong-un-win-bluff-guam-2017-8
	Kim Jong Un doesn't need to strike Guam — he's already won

	Alex Lockie

	...Instead he promised to respond to the next provocation from North Korea with what many assumed to mean nuclear force. Just a few hours later, Pyongyang obliged him, and it issued a specific and disquieting threat.

	Carlin, as well as other North Korea experts on the call, agreed that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un would most likely decide against firing the missiles, as they're unreliable and present a large risk should they fail.

	But now Kim has publicly crossed Trump. 

	Whether or not North Korea follows through with its threat, which is really just an announcement of the intention to create a plan to present to Kim, it has already dealt a severe blow to the US's credibility. 


------


http://www.businessinsider.com/north-korea-august-peace-opportunity-trump-2017-8
	"But there's a bargain here," Wit added, "a quid pro quo here." North Korea has previously offered to suspend its nuclear development if the US and South Korea suspend their annual war games. In the past, the US has rejected this offer because the drills are legal and North Korea's nuclear development is not.

	But with North Korea pushing closer to a nuclear-capable missile designed to accurately reach major US cities, Witt said it may be time to revisit that position.

	"It's really the best point in time for a US president to do it," Witt said of peace talks with North Korea.

	"Trump is insulated from any Republican criticism, which has stopped Democrats before," Witt said. "He thinks outside of the box. He might be the right person to do it."

------


http://www.businessinsider.com/heres-who-would-win-in-a-war-between-north-and-south-korea-2016-4
	Aug. 9, 2017,

	Blake Stilwel 


Says basically same thing as Cohen on Aug 9

------

http://www.politico.com/story/2017/08/10/trump-north-korea-rhetoric-military-response-241510

seam defeatist?


------





https://www.wsj.com/articles/pence-says-u-s-wont-hold-talks-with-north-korea-1501709103
	Pence Says U.S. Won’t Hold Talks With North Korea

	U.S. Vice President Mike Pence rejected the notion of holding direct talks with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un aimed at curbing the nation’s nuclear weapons program, saying the right strategy doesn’t involve “engaging North Korea directly.”

	Instead, Mr. Pence said he favored economic and diplomatic pressure while pushing China to use its clout with Pyongyang. The U.S. isn’t ruling out military action against North Korea, leaving “all options are on the table,” said Mr. Pence, who spoke in his cabin aboard Air Force Two as he flew home Wednesday from a trip to Estonia, Georgia and Montenegro.


------



Suzanne DMaggio:

https://twitter.com/suzannedimaggio/status/890648696072921088
	Derek Harvey, an #Iran hawk hired by Michael Flynn, is pushed out by H.R. McMaster. http://politi.co/2vNu8DW  via @politico


https://twitter.com/suzannedimaggio/status/877176840049262592
	Let's turn this on its head: The US is squandering its chance to build on the nuclear deal w #Iran. https://www.wsj.com/articles/iran-has-squandered-its-chance-to-avoid-sanctions-1497899727 … via @WSJOpinion


https://twitter.com/suzannedimaggio/status/875567327722340352
	When persistent 'quiet diplomacy' works.

	US official's 'quiet diplomacy' led to Warmbier's release


------

https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-china-tensions-may-undermine-unified-response-to-north-korea-nuclear-test-1473434313

US China tensions my undermine unified response to NK


------

http://www.cnn.com/2017/08/11/politics/trump-north-korea-overt-threat/index.html
	Foreign policy and national security experts have raised questions about Trump's threatening response to North Korea, noting that past administrations have tried to avoid the President commenting on North Korea's threats in order to avoid giving them credibility.



http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/346263-trump-on-north-korea-hopefully-it-will-all-work-out
	President Trump on Friday sought to calm frayed nerves over his war of words with North Korea, saying “hopefully it will all work out” in the two countries’ nuclear showdown. 


------

------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/global-opinions/there-are-only-two-ways-forward-on-north-korea/2017/08/11/de8f0cf2-7ea8-11e7-83c7-5bd5460f0d7e_story.html

WaPo says keeep it cool, try sanctions before regime change


sounds right to me


------


http://www.smh.com.au/world/donald-trump-and-xi-jinping-speak-by-phone-amid-usnorth-korea-tension-20170812-gxuvtf.html
	Hours later Mr Xi told Mr Trump in the Saturday phone call that the US and North Korea should "maintain restraint and avoid any speeches or actions that may escalate tension on the Korean Peninsula", according to Chinese official reports.

	Mr Xi "stressed that China and the US have common interest in realising denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula and maintaining peace and stability".

	Mr Xi urged "dialogue, negotiation and a political solution" to solve the problem.


------


http://money.cnn.com/2017/08/12/news/economy/trump-xi-us-china-trade/index.html?adkey=bn
	President Trump on Friday night informed China's leader that he's preparing to order an investigation into Chinese trade practices next week, a senior administration official told CNN.


what is he doing now...


------


http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2017/08/09/obama-administration-knew-about-north-koreas-miniaturized-nukes.html
	Tuesday's bombshell Washington Post story that the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) has determined North Korea is capable of constructing miniaturized nuclear weapons that could be used as warheads for missiles – possibly ICBMs – left out a crucial fact: DIA actually concluded this in 2013.  The Post also failed to mention that the Obama administration tried to downplay and discredit this report at the time.


This true? just reporting the same conclusion from 2013?

	During an April 11, 2013, House Armed Services Committee hearing, Congressman Doug Lamborn, R-Colo., inadvertently revealed several unclassified sentences from a DIA report that said DIA had determined with “moderate confidence” that North Korea has the capability to make a nuclear weapon small enough to be launched with a ballistic missile.

	The Director of National Intelligence and Obama officials subsequently tried to dismiss Lamborn’s disclosure by claiming the DIA assessment was an outlier that did not reflect the views of the rest of the U.S. Intelligence Community. 


so "moderate confidence," weren't completely sure?


also by Fleitz:


http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2017/05/12/more-indications-intel-assessment-russian-interference-in-election-was-rigged.html
	More indications Intel assessment of Russian interference in election was rigged



------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/pentagon-north-korea-could-have-nuclear-missile/2013/04/11/72230dea-a2eb-11e2-82bc-511538ae90a4_story.html
	Pentagon: North Korea likely has nuclear warhead for its ballistic missiles
	By Ernesto Londoño April 11, 2013

	North Korea probably has a nuclear warhead small enough to fit on a ballistic missile, according to a new assessment by the Pentagon’s intelligence arm that comes amid growing alarm over Pyongyang’s warmongering.

	The conclusion by the Defense Intelligence Agency said the weapon would have “low reliability,” but the disclosure during a congressional hearing Thursday is likely to raise fresh concerns about North Korea’s capabilities and intentions. 

	...James R. Clapper, the director of national intelligence, issued a statement Thursday night saying the DIA assessment was not the consensus of the U.S. intelligence community. “North Korea has not yet demonstrated the full range of capabilities necessary for a nuclear armed missile,” he said.


------

Doug Lamborn

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doug_Lamborn
	Lamborn is one of the House Republicans leading the effort against public funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and NPR (National Public Radio). "I have been seeking to push Big Bird out of the nest for over a year, based on the simple fact that we can no longer afford to spend taxpayer dollars on nonessential government programs. It's time for Big Bird to earn his wings and learn to fly on his own." [18]

	On August 24, 2007, Jonathan Bartha, who works for Focus on the Family (headquartered in Colorado Springs), and his wife Anna wrote a letter to the editor in a community newspaper expressing concerns about Lamborn's opposition to more restrictions on dog fighting. They were also concerned he had taken several campaign contributions from the gaming industry. A few days later, Lamborn allegedly left two voice mails threatening "consequences" if they didn't renounce their "blatantly false" letter. He also said that he would be "forced to take other steps" if the matter wasn't resolved "on a Scriptural level." The Barthas were shocked by the messages, and Anna Bartha called Lamborn's behavior "not anything we would ever anticipate an elected official would pursue."

	..."Tar Baby" Remark

	On July 29, 2011, Lamborn appeared on a Denver radio program to discuss the debt crisis and the failure of Democrats and Republicans to reach a compromise on the problem. Lamborn stated "Now, I don't even want to have to be associated with [President Obama]. It's like touching a tar baby and you get it, you're stuck, and you're a part of the problem now and you can't get away."[22] The term tar baby is sometimes considered to be a racial slur used towards African-Americans. 

	...Leak of classified national security information

	On April 11, 2013, Lamborn read out in an open session broadcast on C-SPAN an unclassified section from a classified report on North Korean nuclear capabilities. The chairman of the Joint Chiefs refused to confirm the classified report.[26] The Pentagon later confirmed that the Defense Intelligence Agency had marked that sentence as unclassified mistakenly.

	...Role in 2013 government shutdown

	Doug Lamborn is one of the 80 members of the House that signed a letter to the speaker of the house, urging the threat of a government shutdown to defund Obamacare. This group was named the "Suicide Caucus".[28] He voted against the measure that finally ended the shutdown on October 16, 2013 [29]


http://www.jpost.com/Author/DOUG-LAMBORN

http://www.kktv.com/content/news/DOJ-appoints-former-FBI-director-to-oversee-Russia-investigation-422849044.html


------


http://security.blogs.cnn.com/2013/04/11/mistake-in-classification-led-to-n-korea-info-being-revealed/
	April 11th, 2013 

	The Pentagon was caught by surprise Thursday when sensitive information about North Korea's nuclear program from a classified March 2013 report was "mistakenly" declassified and discussed during an open hearing on Capitol Hill, raising questions about how such a significant error could have occurred.

	In a hearing by the House Armed Services Committee to discuss the Pentagon's budget, Rep. Doug Lamborn, R-Colorado, read from what he said was an unclassified sentence in an otherwise classified report by the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA).

	"DIA assess with moderate confidence the North currently has nuclear weapons capable of delivery by ballistic missiles, however, the reliability will be low," Lamborn read before posing a question about its significance to Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey.

	"Well, I haven't seen it," Dempsey said in response, appearing caught off guard. "And you said it's not publicly released, so I - I choose not to comment on it."

	Multiple officials told CNN after the hearing that the information read by Lamborn was "mistakenly" marked as unclassified.

	"Several of us here in the Pentagon were shocked by hearing that assessment read aloud in an open hearing," one defense official told CNN.

	The line came from a seven-page report, "Dynamic Threat Assessment 8099: North Korea Nuclear Weapons Program."

	"The only thing DIA has unclassified is that one sentence and the title," Lamborn said later Thursday in an interview with CNN. "This is not briefing reports supplied to the committee, this is simply a DIA analysis, a seven-page report in which one sentence is unclassified."

	An aide to the committee confirmed to CNN that Lamborn received the material from committee staff before the hearing.


so they gave it to Lamborn specifically

	While certain paragraphs within a report may be classified at different levels to protect the revelation of certain sources and methods, the official said it was unusual to have one sentence in a report declassified.

	Such a decision would most likely come from the head of the agency that published the report, or a more senior official such as the director of national intelligence, who is charged with overseeing the entire intelligence community.


Wouldn't that be Flynn?

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Flynn
	Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency
	In office
	July 24, 2012 – August 7, 2014


yes

	While questions as to how the statement was ultimately declassified are certain to mount within the intelligence community, the Pentagon played down the gravity of the assessment on Thursday evening.

	"While I cannot speak to all the details of a report that is classified in its entirety, it would be inaccurate to suggest that the North Korean regime has fully tested, developed, or demonstrated the kinds of nuclear capabilities referenced in the passage," Pentagon spokesman George Little said in a written statement. 


so they downplayed it. Perhaps taken out of context?

------

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/north-korea-now-making-missile-ready-nuclear-weapons-us-analysts-say/2017/08/08/e14b882a-7b6b-11e7-9d08-b79f191668ed_story.html
	 By Joby Warrick, Ellen Nakashima and Anna Fifield August 8

	North Korea has successfully produced a miniaturized nuclear warhead that can fit inside its missiles, crossing a key threshold on the path to becoming a full-fledged nuclear power, U.S. intelligence officials have concluded in a confidential assessment.

	The analysis, completed last month by the Defense Intelligence Agency, comes on the heels of another intelligence assessment that sharply raises the official estimate for the total number of bombs in the communist country’s atomic arsenal. The United States calculated last month that up to 60 nuclear weapons are now controlled by North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Some independent experts think the number is much smaller.

So this is a new assessment, completed last month

	...Although more than a decade has passed since North Korea’s first nuclear detonation, many analysts thought it would be years before the country’s weapons scientists could design a compact warhead that could be delivered by missile to distant targets. But the new assessment, a summary document dated July 28, concludes that this critical milestone has been reached.

	“The IC [intelligence community] assesses North Korea has produced nuclear weapons for ballistic missile delivery, to include delivery by ICBM-class missiles,” the assessment states, in an excerpt read to The Washington Post. Two U.S. officials familiar with the assessment verified its broad conclusions. It is not known whether the reclusive regime has successfully tested the smaller design, although North Korea officially claimed last year that it had done so.


Saying the "IC" assesses North Korea has nukes for balistic missile delivery


unless reporting completely made up, seems right to me?


from march 2016:

http://www.cnn.com/2016/03/24/politics/north-korea-miniaturized-nuclear-warhead/index.html
	U.S. officials who endorse the notion that Kim probably has a nuclear warhead still note that they don't know if the device would actually work. The North Koreans believe it would.

	U.S. commanders have said they assume for war planning purposes that North Korea has a functional warhead but have stopped short of outright declaring it exists.

	...But he said that this operational assumption "does not mean that they have that capability. They've not demonstrated that."

	...The North Korean military's last nuclear test was in January, a test they claimed was a hydrogen bomb detonation. U.S. officials disputed that claim.


didn't WaPo report say that too?

NK hasn't tested it, don't know if it will work

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/north-korea-now-making-missile-ready-nuclear-weapons-us-analysts-say/2017/08/08/e14b882a-7b6b-11e7-9d08-b79f191668ed_story.html
	It is not known whether the reclusive regime has successfully tested the smaller design, although North Korea officially claimed last year that it had done so.


And Japans report is more of a "maybe:"

https://www.reuters.com/article/us-japan-defence-idUSKBN1AO03F
	"It is conceivable that North Korea's nuclear weapons program has already considerably advanced and it is possible that North Korea has already achieved the miniaturization of nuclear weapons and has acquired nuclear warheads," the Defence Ministry said. 


But then there's this:

http://www.nbcnews.com/news/north-korea/cia-other-spy-agencies-agree-north-korea-can-fit-nuclear-n791486
	
	CIA, Other Spy Agencies Agree North Korea Can Fit Nuclear Weapon on Missile

	by Andrea Mitchell and Ken Dilanian

	WASHINGTON — The CIA and other key U.S. intelligence agencies agree with the assessment that North Korea has miniaturized a nuclear weapon to place atop a ballistic missile, U.S. officials told NBC News.

	The disclosure adds to the emerging picture about a new intelligence estimate that has significantly ratcheted up tensions between the U.S. and North Korea

	...But U.S. officials told NBC News that other agencies, including the CIA and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, agree with the assessment. What has yet to be learned is what confidence level various agencies ascribe to the analysis — low, medium or high.

	U.S. officials have also been pushing back on the idea that they were surprised by the development, saying that it had been expected for some time.

	...Successful miniaturization does not mean North Korea now has a reliable nuclear-armed missile that can hit the U.S., but it puts the country further along that path.