Is this what Trump believes?


http://www.breitbart.com/big-journalism/2016/07/10/sympathy-devils-plot-roger-ailes-america/
	Sympathy for the Devils: The Plot Against Roger Ailes — and America

	by Stephen K. Bannon

	You see, ordinary Americans don’t want their country to be controlled by the likes of Micah Johnson. Indeed, in deep-blue-Democratic Maryland, the news that a 59-year-old economics professor at Johns Hopkins University was stabbed to death while walking her dogs in a park in Baltimore on July 8 is just one more indicator that things are going haywire, such that even liberals know something is deeply wrong. Indeed, the Baltimore murder is a tragic reminder that all the progress that’s been made in the last 25 years toward revitalizing cities could be washed away in an orgy of de-gentrification.

	In the meantime, here’s a thought: What if the people getting shot by the cops did things to deserve it? There are, after all, in this world, some people who are naturally aggressive and violent. On July 9, one such gun-toting miscreant was killed in Houston. Have a look for yourself and see if you think we lost much when Alva Braziel met his end: In the droll headline of Infowars, “Cops Kill Innocent Black Man Merely for Pointing a Gun at Them!” (Hat tip: @_Makada_, African-American female.)

	So thus the mega-question for 2016: Who should run this country? The duly appointed authorities? Or street hoodlums?


http://www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-mcmanus-bannon-populism-20161123-story.html
	...In stretching to paint Bannon as an old-fashioned racist, his critics overshot — and also missed the point. Bannon is more complicated, a whole new political beast. And because of that, he’s more dangerous than his adversaries in both the Democratic and Republican parties yet realize. 

	...His editors at Breitbart News, the conservative website he ran, said Bannon tried to keep overt racism out of the headlines. That said, he allowed plenty of dog whistles. An entire category of articles was tagged “Black Crime,” for instance. The comment section was “a cesspool for white supremacists,” a former editor complained. Bannon shrugged off any guilt by association. “Are there some people that are white nationalists that are attracted to some of the philosophies of the “alt-right”? Maybe,” he told Mother Jones magazine. “Are there some people that are anti-Semitic that are attracted? Maybe.”

&nbsp;

https://twitter.com/_Makada_/status/896430519092752384
	The white supremacists doing Nazi salutes at #Charlottesville and #BlackLivesMatter black supremacists are two sides of the same coin.


https://twitter.com/_Makada_/status/896489891021934592
	The Democrats created the KKK. Hitler was a left-wing socialist. Nazi stands for National SOCIALIST German Workers Party. #Charlottesville

&nbsp;

http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2017/03/far-right-hungarian-group-gorka-swore-a-loyalty-oath-to-us.html
	Nazi-Affiliated Hungarian Group: Sebastian Gorka Swore a Loyalty Oath to Us

	...according to members of Vitézi Rend (Order of Vitéz), a far-right Hungarian group with deep historical ties to the Nazis and to anti-Semitism, Gorka “took a lifelong oath of loyalty” to the group.

	This could help explain why Gorka was seen at President Trump’s inaugural balls sporting a medal associated with Vitézi Rend founder Miklós Horthy, the virulently anti-Semitic World War II–era ruler of Hungary (“[F]or all my life, I have been an anti-Semite,” he once wrote) who cooperated with the Nazis


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sebastian_Gorka#The_Historical_Order_of_Vit.C3.A9z
	Paul Gorka's memoir Budapest elárulva ("Budapest betrayed") identifies him on its cover as "v. Gorka Pál", where the "v" is an abbreviation for the title vitéz. Sebastian Gorka has adopted the title in this way in a number of his publications, notably his PhD thesis and his writings for the Gatestone Institute. He also used the title in his June 2011 testimony before the House Armed Services Committee.

	In 2017 Gorka appeared on Fox News on the evening of the U.S. presidential inauguration wearing a badge, tunic, and ring of the Order of Vitéz.

	The U.S. State Department lists the Order among organizations having been "under the direction of the Nazi government of Germany" during World War II.


http://www.tabletmag.com/scroll/227733/tale-of-trump-advisors-alleged-nazi-ties-unravels
	“I have never been a member of the Vitez Rend. I have never taken an oath of loyalty to the Vitez Rend. Since childhood, I have occasionally worn my father’s medal and used the ‘v.’ initial to honor his struggle against totalitarianism.” It’s a perfectly plausible explanation, and you’d have to be of a very specific mindset to still pursue allegations of Nazi affiliation.

	Why didn’t Gorka simply tell this to the Forward? A source close to the White House, who was briefed on how the administration treated this story, explained things a little more to me.

	“These guys genuinely believed that the allegations were so blatantly false and so aggressively poorly-sourced, that no responsible journalist would ever publish them,” the source told me on the phone. “Is Seb Gorka, whose family literally bears the scars of anti-fascist fights, a secret Nazi cultist? Come on now.”


http://forward.com/news/national/367937/exclusive-controversial-trump-aide-sebastian-gorka-backed-violent-anti-semi/
	As a Hungarian political leader in 2007, Sebastian Gorka, President Trump’s chief counter-terrorism adviser, publicly supported a violent racist and anti-Semitic paramilitary militia that was later banned as a threat to minorities by multiple court rulings.

	In a video obtained by the Forward of an August 2007 television appearance by Gorka, the future White House senior aide explicitly affirms his party’s and his support for the black-vested Hungarian Guard (Magyar Gárda)

	...Asked directly on the TV interview program if he supports the move by Jobbik, a far-right anti-Semitic party, to establish the militia, Gorka, appearing as a leader of his own newly formed party, replies immediately, “That is so.” The Guard, Gorka explains, is a response to “a big societal need.”


http://hungarianspectrum.org/2009/04/22/the-hungarian-guard-and-the-holocaust-denial/
	Last Saturday, April 18, sixty members of the Hungarian Guard, uniforms and all, demonstrated in front of the German Embassy.

	...This splinter group openly calls itself national socialist. Banners saying "Down with the Dogma of the Holocaust" and "The Third Reich Will Fight Back" can be seen on the picture below. The guardists wanted to hand their "manifesto" to the Germans inside


http://www.tabletmag.com/scroll/227733/tale-of-trump-advisors-alleged-nazi-ties-unravels
	...Let’s all take a deep breath. The White House is no more overrun with Nazis as with secret Russian spies.


&nbsp;


http://nypost.com/2017/08/07/more-russian-spies-in-us-than-anytime-in-past-15-years-report/
	More Russian spies in US than anytime in ‘past 15 years’: report

	Russian spies have flooded the US to infiltrate government, businesses and other institutions as President Vladimir Putin has dramatically expanded intelligence operations on US soil, a new report said Monday.

	“There are more Russian operatives, declared and undeclared, in the United States now than at any other time in the past fifteen years,” a senior US official told The New Yorker.

	“They’re here in large numbers, actively trying to penetrate a whole host of sectors—government, industry, and academia.”


http://www.cnn.com/2017/07/06/politics/russia-steps-up-spying-efforts-after-election
	...The officials say they believe one of the biggest US adversaries feels emboldened by the lack of a significant retaliatory response from both the Trump and Obama administrations.

	...In some cases, Russian spies have tried to gain employment at places with sensitive information as part of their intelligence-gathering efforts, the sources say.

	But that hasn't stopped the State Department from issuing the temporary duty visas — also known as TDY — to the suspected Russian intelligence officers.


http://money.cnn.com/2016/12/11/investing/rex-tillerson-exxon-russia-putin/index.html
	 Behind the deep ties between Exxon's Rex Tillerson and Russia

	 In 2013, Vladimir Putin awarded ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson the Order of Friendship, one of the highest honors Russia gives to foreign citizens.

&nbsp;

http://www.dukechronicle.com/article/2017/01/very-young-person-in-the-white-house-on-a-power-trip
	‘A very young person in the White House on a power trip’

	Immigration ban architect Stephen Miller foreshadowed his policy on journey from Duke to the West Wing

	...Miller and white nationalist Richard Spencer, a graduate student in Duke’s history department from 2005-07, collaborated on hosting an immigration policy debate in March 2007, according to two former members of the Duke Conservative Union. 

	Spencer, who founded the National Policy Institute, has delivered a Nazi salute on camera and is credited with coining the term “alt-right." He also made news on Inauguration Day when he was punched in the face during an on-camera interview.

	...“[Spencer] certainly believes that some races are biologically superior to others with regard to intelligence, creativity, self-control and such,” said English, now a professor in the business school at Georgetown University.

	English said that neither he nor members of DCU, including Miller, embraced Spencer’s views “when he occasionally tipped his hand” about his beliefs. But Spencer told Mother Jones that he found it “funny” that so few people had picked up on the connection between him and Miller.

	"I knew him very well when I was at Duke,” Spencer said in the article. “But I am kind of glad no one's talked about this because I don't want to harm Trump."


https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/virginia-politics/alt-rights-richard-spencer-leads-torch-bearing-protesters-defending-lee-statue/2017/05/14/766aaa56-38ac-11e7-9e48-c4f199710b69_story.html
	>Self-proclaimed white nationalist Richard Spencer led a large group of demonstrators carrying torches and chanting “You will not replace us” Saturday in Charlottesville, protesting plans to remove a Confederate monument that has played an outsize role in this year’s race for Virginia governor.

	>“What brings us together is that we are white, we are a people, we will not be replaced,” Spencer said at an afternoon protest

	>...At the second rally, dozens of torch-bearing protesters gathered in a city park Saturday evening and chanted “You will not replace us” and “Russia is our friend”


http://www.newsweek.com/ezra-cohen-watnik-fired-purge-iran-war-hawk-mcmaster-trump-kushner-bannon-645734
	The Purge: White House Official With Ties to Michael Flynn Fired

	Updated | Another top White House National Security Council official has been fired in the continuing purge of hard-right ideologues that began with the departure of former Lieutenant General Michael Flynn in February.

	...Flynn was ousted over unreported contacts with Russian ambassador

	...classified reports showing Trump and his associates were incidentally swept up in an electronic surveillance of Russian agents



------


http://radio.foxnews.com/2016/08/29/jared-taylor-the-notion-that-all-men-are-created-equal-is-nonsense/
	Jared Taylor: “The Notion That All Men Are Created Equal Is Nonsense”


https://www.amren.com/commentary/2017/01/jared-taylor-trump-inauguration-james-edwards/
	Jared Taylor

	He seems to realize that at least some people don’t belong here. There are men close to him—Steve Bannon, Jeff Sessions, Stephen Miller—who may have a clearer understanding of race, and their influence could grow.

	Donald Trump is a good start, but the finish is still up to us.


------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generation_Zero
	The documentary features historian David Kaiser as well as author and amateur historian Neil Howe. In the film, Bannon examines the financial crisis of 2007–2008 in the context of a generational theory by authors William Strauss and Neil Howe.


------


https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/how-a-shadow-universe-of-charities-joined-with-political-warriors-to-fuel-trumps-rise/2017/06/03/ff5626ac-3a77-11e7-a058-ddbb23c75d82_story.html
	The man behind the event was David Horowitz, a former ’60s radical who became an intellectual godfather to the far right through his writings and his work at a charity, the David Horowitz Freedom Center. Since its formation in 1988, the Freedom Center has helped cultivate a generation of political warriors seeking to upend the Washington establishment. These warriors include some of the most powerful and influential figures in the Trump administration: Attorney General Sessions, senior policy adviser Miller and White House chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon.

	Long before Trump promised to build a wall, ban Muslims and abandon the Paris climate accord, Horowitz used his tax-exempt group to rail against illegal immigrants, the spread of Islam and global warming. Center officials described Hillary Clinton as evil, President Barack Obama as a secret communist and the Democratic Party as a front for enemies of the United States.

	The Freedom Center has declared itself a “School for Political Warfare,” and it is part of a loose nationwide network of like-minded charities linked together by ideology, personalities, conservative funders and websites, including the for-profit Breitbart News.


	...A marquee event that weekend was the Citizens United Film Festival. It included a documentary written and directed by Bannon about the ravages of the financial meltdown called “Generation Zero.” The Citizens United Foundation, another conservative tax-exempt charity, would soon pay Bannon hundreds of thousands for fundraising and film consulting.

	Bannon was becoming an important ally for Horowitz and a pivotal figure in the growing network. Bannon and a partner once suggested including Horowitz in a proposed documentary to be called “Destroying the Great Satan: The Rise of Islamic Fascism in America.” The movie’s draft outline warned of an Islamic takeover of the United States.

	In March 2012, Bannon was named the executive chairman of the online Breitbart News site, following the unexpected death of his friend and collaborator, Andrew Breitbart. Bannon immediately began steering the site even deeper into the anti-establishment movement.


	...A few days later, Horowitz traveled to Palm Beach to host another Restoration Weekend at the Breakers. Bannon was going, too — in part to raise money for a documentary film about Horowitz. Bannon said he needed $1 million and there were few venues better for finding wealthy donors. As it happened, Bannon could not raise the money, according to two attendees who heard his pitch. But he received an unexpected gift.


	...In May 2016, when it became clear Trump would be the Republican nominee, he called conservative columnist William Kristol a “Republican spoiler” and “renegade Jew” in Breitbart News because of his opposition to Trump.

	“To weaken the only party that stands between the Jews and their annihilation, and between America and the forces intent on destroying her, is a political miscalculation so great and a betrayal so profound as to not be easily forgiven,” Horowitz wrote.

	The article created an uproar, with some critics accusing the Jewish Horowitz of making anti-Semitic remarks. In response to questions from The Post, Kristol played down the episode and dismissed Horowitz as a bombastic self-promoter.

	“David is an angry man. He thinks he’s been denied the power and recognition he deserves. So he lashes out. I shudder to think of David’s rage when he realizes he’s been taken for a ride by a con man,” Kristol said.

	“I look forward to the day when American conservatism regains its moral health and political sanity, and the David Horowitz center is back on the fringe, where I’m afraid it belongs.”

	But the Freedom Center and others in the network were rising on the Trump tide. The campaign named Bannon the chief executive, David Bossie of Citizens United the vice president and Miller an adviser.


	...Two weeks later, the Freedom Center named Bannon its Man of the Year.

	“Over the years people would refer to my Freedom Center as a ‘think tank’ and I would correct them, ‘No, it’s a battle tank,’ because that is what I felt was missing most in the conservative cause — troops ready and willing to fight fire with fire,” Horowitz wrote in Breitbart in February. “The Trump administration may be only a few weeks old, but it is already clear that the new White House is a battle tank.”



------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Horowitz_Freedom_Center
	In 2014–2015, Horowitz provided $250,000 in funding to the Dutch far-right nationalist Geert Wilders's People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, possibly violating U.S. tax law.


------

http://www.frontpagemag.com/point/267553/left-wing-extremism-feeds-extremist-reaction-daniel-greenfield
	Democrats demand that Republicans condemn Neo-Nazis. And certainly everyone should make their disgust clear. But Democrats have publicly endorsed Black Lives Matter. And Black Nationalists are just another racist hate group. Who operate with the support of the Democrats.

	The Confederate memorial crisis was an utterly unnecessary confrontation pushed by Black Nationalists and exploited by Neo-Nazis.

	After the Civil War, Americans achieved a modus vivendi. The Union was preserved, but the South was allowed to honor its dead and its leaders. The campaign against Confederate memorials was the best possible present that the Neo-Nazis of the Alt-Right could have received. And so both sets of extremists fed on each other. That's how it works. And the blame goes to the left which lit the spark.

	...If the left wants a functioning society with a middle ground, then it must restrain its extremists. If it wants to unleash its extremists and then decry the violence, it's the source of the problem.




http://www.frontpagemag.com/fpm/264254/alt-right-explained-milo-yiannopoulos
	 Salon is more succinct. “The alt-right, also known as white nationalism.”

	Now, obviously there’s a grain of truth to some of these characterizations.



http://www.frontpagemag.com/fpm/264872/are-bannons-critics-real-paul-gottfried
	Like David Horowitz, David Goldman, Rudolf Giuliani, and dozens of other commentators, I find the charges leveled against Bannon to be outrageous slander. 

	...Meanwhile Steve Bannon is condemned internationally for having possibly said, at least according to an estranged wife, that he objected to spoiled Jewish students in a private school? Perhaps the kids there were spoiled. Why should I even care what he said on this subject, if he really said it?



------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Horowitz
	Horowitz was raised by parents who were members of the Communist Party USA during the Great Depression;

	...After completing his graduate degree in the late 1960s, Horowitz lived in London and worked for the Bertrand Russell Peace Foundation.[10][11] He identified as a serious Marxist intellectual.


https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/how-a-shadow-universe-of-charities-joined-with-political-warriors-to-fuel-trumps-rise/2017/06/03/ff5626ac-3a77-11e7-a058-ddbb23c75d82_story.html
	“I’m a Leninist,” Bannon said, according to Radosh. “Lenin wanted to destroy the state, and that’s my goal, too. I want to bring everything crashing down, and destroy all of today’s establishment.”


http://edition.cnn.com/2016/11/18/politics/steve-bannon-donald-trump-hollywood-reporter-interview/index.html
	The ex-Breitbart executive, who serves as Trump's chief strategist for the new administration, told The Hollywood Reporter that "darkness is good."

	"Dick Cheney. Darth Vader. Satan. That's power. It only helps us when they (liberals) get it wrong. When they're blind to who we are and what we're doing,"




------

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Bannon
	In a 2014 speech to a Vatican conference, Bannon made a passing reference to Julius Evola, a twentieth-century, Nazi-linked Italian writer who influenced Mussolini's Italian Fascism and promoted the Traditionalist School, described by a New York Times writer as "a worldview popular in far-right and alternative religious circles that believes progress and equality are poisonous illusions."[68] In referring to the associated views of Vladimir Putin, who is influenced by Evola follower Aleksandr Dugin, Bannon stated "We, the Judeo-Christian West, really have to look at what he's talking about as far as Traditionalism goes — particularly the sense of where it supports the underpinnings of nationalism."[68] He has likewise quoted French anti-Enlightenment writer Charles Maurras approvingly to a French diplomat.[69][70]

	Starting in 2015, Bannon has frequently referenced the controversial, racist 1973 French novel The Camp of the Saints, which depicts immigration destroying Western civilization.



------


https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/10/world/europe/bannon-vatican-julius-evola-fascism.html?_r=0
	Changing the system, Evola argued, was “not a question of contesting and polemicizing, but of blowing everything up.”




------


https://www.buzzfeed.com/lesterfeder/this-is-how-steve-bannon-sees-the-entire-world
	Now that call converges with something we have to face, and it’s a very unpleasant topic, but we are in an outright war against jihadist Islamic fascism. And this war is, I think, metastasizing far quicker than governments can handle it.


Bannon: start christian crusade against islam, global war


	...Bannon: Outside of Fox News and the Drudge Report, we’re the third-largest conservative news site and, quite frankly, we have a bigger global reach than even Fox. And that’s why we’re expanding so much internationally.

	Look, we believe — strongly — that there is a global tea party movement. We’ve seen that. We were the first group to get in and start reporting on things like UKIP and Front National and other center right. With all the baggage that those groups bring — and trust me, a lot of them bring a lot of baggage, both ethnically and racially — but we think that will all be worked through with time.


Bannon in with the fascists


	...They think they know best about how to raise their families and how to educate their families. So I think you're seeing a global reaction to centralized government, whether that government is in Beijing or that government is in Washington, DC, or that government is in Brussels. So we are the platform for the voice of that.

	...so I think this is a global revolt, and we are very fortunate and proud to be the news site that is reporting that throughout the world.


a twinge of anarchism too?

	...And look at the [unintelligible] it. Middle-class taxpayers, people that are working-class people, right, people making incomes under $50,000 and $60,000, it was the burden of those taxpayers, right, that bailed out the elites. And let’s think about it for a second. Here’s how capitalism metastasized, is that all the burdens put on the working-class people who get none of the upside. All of the upside goes to the crony capitalists.

	...In otherwise all the upside goes to the hedge funds and the investment bank, and to the crony capitalist with stock increases and bonus increases. And their downside is limited, because middle-class people are going to come and bail them out with tax dollars.

	And that’s what I think is fueling this populist revolt. Whether that revolt is in the Midlands of England, or whether it’s in Middle America. And I think people are fed up with it.


and kindof marxist?

	Question: Obviously, before the European elections the two parties had a clear link to Putin. If one of the representatives of the dangers of capitalism is the state involvement in capitalism, so, I see there, also Marine Le Pen campaigning in Moscow with Putin, and also UKIP strongly defending Russian positions in geopolitical terms.

	[Harnwell restates, but unintelligible]

	Harnwell: These two parties have both been cultivating President Putin [unintelligible].

	Bannon: I think it’s a little bit more complicated. When Vladimir Putin, when you really look at some of the underpinnings of some of his beliefs today, a lot of those come from what I call Eurasianism; he's got an adviser who harkens back to Julius Evola and different writers of the early 20th century who are really the supporters of what's called the traditionalist movement, which really eventually metastasized into Italian fascism. A lot of people that are traditionalists are attracted to that.

	One of the reasons is that they believe that at least Putin is standing up for traditional institutions, and he's trying to do it in a form of nationalism — and I think that people, particularly in certain countries, want to see the sovereignty for their country, they want to see nationalism for their country. They don't believe in this kind of pan-European Union or they don't believe in the centralized government in the United States. They'd rather see more of a states-based entity that the founders originally set up where freedoms were controlled at the local level.

	I'm not justifying Vladimir Putin and the kleptocracy that he represents, because he eventually is the state capitalist of kleptocracy. However, we the Judeo-Christian West really have to look at what he's talking about as far as traditionalism goes — particularly the sense of where it supports the underpinnings of nationalism — and I happen to think that the individual sovereignty of a country is a good thing and a strong thing. I think strong countries and strong nationalist movements in countries make strong neighbors, and that is really the building blocks that built Western Europe and the United States, and I think it's what can see us forward.

	You know, Putin’s been quite an interesting character. He’s also very, very, very intelligent. I can see this in the United States where he's playing very strongly to social conservatives about his message about more traditional values, so I think it's something that we have to be very much on guard of. Because at the end of the day, I think that Putin and his cronies are really a kleptocracy, that are really an imperialist power that want to expand. However, I really believe that in this current environment, where you're facing a potential new caliphate that is very aggressive that is really a situation — I'm not saying we can put it on a back burner — but I think we have to deal with first things first.


Banon: Putin genius, really not that bad, we should look to him for leadership and align with him against islamic fascists



------


https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/6tbd8l/trump_suspects_bannon_of_leaking_putting_job_in/



------



