https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgy_Gapon
	Father Gapon, with the financial support of Colonel Motojiro Akashi of the Imperial Japanese Army[17] organised the Assembly of Russian Factory and Mill Workers of St. Petersburg, which was also patronized by the Department of the Police and the St. Petersburg Okhrana (secret police). The Assembly's objectives were to defend workers' rights and to elevate their moral and religious status. He was the person to lead the industrial workers to the capital of Russia during the year 1905.

	...After the October Manifesto, before the end of 1905, Gapon returned to Russia and resumed contact with the Okhrana.


https://books.google.com/books?id=dsW2AgAAQBAJ&pg=PT477&lpg=PT477&dq=Bloody+Sunday+Kerensky&source=bl&ots=t8B3lQOjsx&sig=F5ceuOsEEPiZKhGIPTN6-Bx4slc&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjUp6WSr9vWAhUC9IMKHUJUAVoQ6AEIMjAD#v=onepage&q=Bloody%20Sunday%20Kerensky&f=false


Bloody Sunday said to have boosted Kerensky's career somehow?

But appears to be an Okhrana provocation

so would be good to review intersection of Okhrana operations and Kerensky's actions, career


------

wrote about it in "Russia and Historys turning point"

https://padlet.com/Clayola/theromanovs/wish/118200492
	Source Study The Bloody Sunday March
	"Along the Nevsky Prospect from the direction of the working-class districts came row upon row of orderly and solemn faced workers all dressed in their best clothes. Gapon, marching in front of the procession, was carrying a cross, and a number of the workers were holding icons and portraits of the Tsar...

	We had already reached the Alexander Garden, on the other side of which lay the Winter Palace Square, when we heard the sound of bugles, the signal for the cavalry to charge. The marchers came to a halt, uncertain as to what the bugles meant and unable to see what was happening.

	In front, on the right, was a detachment of police, but since they showed no signs of hostility, the procession began moving again. Just then however, a detachment of cavalry rode out...The first volley was fired in the air, but the second was aimed at the crowd, and a number of people fell to the ground. Panic-stricken, the crowd turned and began running in every direction. They were now being fired on from behind...I cannot describe the horror I felt at that moment. It was quite clear the authorities had made a terrible mistake, they had totally misunderstood the intentions of the crowd...the workers went to the palace without any evil intent. They sincerely believed that when they got there they would kneel down and the Tsar would come out and meet them or at least appear on the balcony."


------


https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Kerensky
	Kerensky's father was the teacher of Vladimir Ulyanov (Lenin), and members of the Kerensky and Ulyanov families were friends. 


ties between his family and Lenin's


	...Kerensky joined the Narodnik movement and worked as a legal counsel to victims of the Revolution of 1905. At the end of 1904, he was jailed on suspicion of belonging to a militant group. Afterwards he gained a reputation for his work as a defence lawyer in a number of political trials of revolutionaries.


was a lawyer for some Russian revolutionaries. Arrested at one point.


	...In 1912, Kerensky became widely known when he visited the goldfields at the Lena River and published material about the Lena Minefields incident.


maybe means something? might be an incident they would want to have exploited.


	...In the same year, Kerensky was elected to the Fourth Duma as a member of the Trudoviks, a moderate, non-Marxist labour party founded by Alexis Aladin that was associated with the Socialist-Revolutionary Party, and joined a Freemason society uniting the anti-monarchy forces that strived for the democratic renewal of Russia.


In with secret societies I guess.

Was also in Duma while Okhrana trying to manipulate politics (e.g. "split social democrats", whatever that means). He involved with that in any way?


	...In response to bitter resentments held against the imperial favorite Grigori Rasputin in the midst of Russia's failing effort in World War I, Kerensky, at the opening of the Duma on 2 November 1916, called the imperial ministers "hired assassins" and "cowards", and alleged that they were "guided by the contemptible Grishka Rasputin!"


Same thing with drawing attention to Okhrana ops


	...Shortly after the February Revolution of 1917, a group of soldiers were ordered by Kerensky to re-bury the corpse at an unmarked spot in the countryside, but the truck broke down or was forced to stop because of the snow on Lesnoe Road outside of St. Petersburg. It is likely the corpse was incinerated (between 3 and 7 in the morning) in the cauldrons of the nearby boiler shop[17][18][19] of the Saint Petersburg State Polytechnical University, including the coffin, without leaving a single trace.[20] Anything that had to do with Rasputin disappeared permanently.


the fck is going on here

Rasputin lives?


	...When the Soviet passed a resolution prohibiting its leaders from joining the government, Kerensky delivered a stirring speech at a Soviet meeting. Although the decision was never formalised, he was granted a de facto exemption and continued acting in both capacities.


Soviets give him a pass?


	...Kerensky was heavily criticised by the military for his liberal policies, which included stripping officers of their mandates and handing over control to revolutionary inclined "soldier committees" instead; the abolition of the death penalty; and allowing revolutionary agitators to be present at the front. Many officers jokingly referred to commander-in-chief Kerensky as "persuader-in-chief."


iirc responsible for the "democratization of the army," which went hand-in-hand with Lenin's "revolutionizing" the army and the German Foreign Ministry's "propagandizing" the army.


	...On 2 July 1917, the first coalition collapsed over the question of Ukraine's autonomy. Following the July Days unrest in Petrograd and suppression of the Bolsheviks, Kerensky succeeded Prince Lvov as Russia's Prime Minister. Following the Kornilov Affair, an attempted military coup d'état at the end of August, and the resignation of the other ministers, he appointed himself Supreme Commander-in-Chief as well.


how did it end up that he became Prime Minister after the Kerensky push?


	...Furthermore, Kerensky adopted a policy that isolated the right-wing conservatives, both democratic and monarchist-oriented. His philosophy of "no enemies to the left" greatly empowered the Bolsheviks and gave them a free hand, allowing them to take over the military arm or "voyenka" of the Petrograd and Moscow Soviets.


left the Bolsheviks unopposed?


	...His arrest of Lavr Kornilov and other officers left him without strong allies against the Bolsheviks, who ended up being Kerensky's strongest and most determined adversaries, as opposed to the right wing, which evolved into the White movement.


should review what he did here--understandable why coup happened, but what did he do afterward? sack any good generals?


	...During the Kornilov Affair, Kerensky had distributed arms to the Petrograd workers, and by November most of these armed workers had gone over to the Bolsheviks. On 6–7 November [O.S. 25–26 October] 1917, the Bolsheviks launched the second Russian revolution of the year. Kerensky's government in Petrograd had almost no support in the city.


did he arm the Bolshevis for the Kornilov affair?

ends up pissing off officers in army, public at large, empowering Bolshevisks vs. army and in general, then arming them.


	...Kerensky narrowly escaped, and he spent the next few weeks in hiding before fleeing the country, eventually arriving in France. 


how did he escape?


	...During the Russian Civil War he supported neither side, as he opposed both the Bolshevik regime and the White Movement.

	...After the Nazi-led invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941, Kerensky offered his support to Joseph Stalin.


about sums him up


	...spent much of his time at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University in California, where he both used and contributed to the Institution's huge archive on Russian history, and where he taught graduate courses. He wrote and broadcast extensively on Russian politics and history. His last public speech was delivered at Kalamazoo College in Kalamazoo, Michigan in 1967.


worth reading?


------

Kerensky's father helped Lenin get into school, vouched for him?


https://archive.org/stream/in.ernet.dli.2015.276141/2015.276141.Three-Who_djvu.txt
	But, among 
the colleagues of the deceased school inspector, Ilya Nikolaevich, 
there was at least one honorable exception who stood by the family. 
Feodor Kerensky (father of that Kerensky who will play a large 
role in our story) was the director of the g ymnazia of Simbirsk, 
instructor in literature and Latin, and headmaster of the graduating 
class in which, at the moment Alexander was hung, his younger 
brother, Vladimir, was completing his high-school studies. Even 
while scandalized whispers still remarked the uses to which Alex- 
ander had put his gold medal ( according to sister Anna, Kerensky 
received a reproof from his superiors for having given the medal 
to one so unworthy), the director had the decency and courage 
to award the gold medal once more to an Ulyanov for excellence 
in studies. He advised with Lenin’s mother on the boys future, 
suggesting that Vladimir apply to the University of Kazan rather 
than to that of one of the two capital cities, and that she accompany 
him to Kazan as a safeguard for his good conduct. Setting aside 
any fear of what might come of praising the brother of a would-be 
assassin of the Tsar, he wrote the following recommendation to 
help young Vladimir Ilyich get into the university: 

	Very gifted, always neat and industrious, Ulyanov was 
first in all subjects and, upon completing his studies, re- 
ceived the gold medal as the most deserving pupil in abil- 
ity, progress and conduct. Neither in the school nor outside 
of it, has a single instance been observed when he has given 
cause for dissatisfaction by word or deed to the school 
authorities and teachers. [A white lie, this, for Vladimir 
had gotten into trouble for ridiculing his French teacher!] 
His mental and moral instruction has always been well 
looked after, first by both his parents, and, after the death 
of his father in 1886, by his mother alone, who devoted all 
her attention to the upbringing of her children. Religion 
and discipline were the basis of this upbringing, the fruits 
of which are apparent in Ulyanov's behavior. Looking more 
closely at Ulyanov's character and private life, I have had 
occasion to note a somewhat excessive tendency towards 
isolation and reserve, a tendency to avoid contact with 
acquaintances, and even with the best of his schoolfellows 
outside of school hours. Ulyanov's mother intends to be 
with him throughout his university career. 

	Even the mild stricture on his excessive isolation and reserve 
(which incidentally confirms what his sister Anna records about his 
lack of close friends) was intended to convince the authorities 
that the boy lacked the qualities which might make him into a ring- 
leader and troublemaker. 

	At first glance, the above document does not seem to have any- 
thing remarkable about it. Why should an innocent youngster 
suffer for the crimes of an elder brother? Why not be rated on his 
own merits? Why deny him a gold medal merely because the pre- 
vious winner in the same family had sold his to finance a conspiracy 
against the Tsar? But it is well to remember that in Medieval Eng- 
land, and to some extent in pre-nineteenth century Russia, the 
blood of whole families was regarded as “attainted” if one of their 
members was guilty of treason. And in the Soviet Union today, far 
from having declined, the doctrine of family responsibility has re- 
ceived unheard-of extension and legal codification. 2 In order to 
see in its true perspective Director Kerensky's act on behalf of the 
lad who was one day to become the leading antagonist of Keren- 
sky's own son, we need only try to imagine an official of present- 
day Russia writing such a letter concerning the younger brother of 
one who had plotted to assassinate Stalin! 


could mean something. Possibly, the Okhrana were interested in him since they had executed his brother.


-----

kornilov affair also suspicious

apparently Kerensky ordered Kornilov to attack the Petrograd Soviet


from Henderson book on Burtsev:

	Burtsev had managed to obtain several excerpts from Kornilov’s own ‘testimony’ written for the benefit of Shablovsky’s commission shortly after his arrest.41 These, he published in The Common Cause under the heading ‘Kornilov’s Explanatory Note’ and, over the next few days, supplemented them with copies of the telegraph exchange which had taken place between Kornilov and Kerensky and other documents of relevance. In so doing he provided the public for the first time with a different explanation of events, showing that the accused had, in fact, acted in full agreement with the government and arguing that there never had been a mutiny or a plot.42 Burtsev demanded that the Premier apologize in person and, judging by the thousands of signatures his newspaper collected in support of his stance, the case he made was a convincing one.


Then Kerensky armed the Bolsheviks to attack Kornilov and arrested Kornilov

https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/stalin/works/1917/10/04-2.htm
	Who Were They ?

	Who were Kornilov's advisers and inspirers? To whom did he confide his conspiratorial designs in the first place?

	[list names]


and Bolsheviks wanted to exploit it for some kind of purge of the military, strengthen their fighting force


------

	The liberal-patriotic weekly Petrograd Gazette, for example, splashed his portrait over a whole page under the banner headline: ‘Unmasker of Secret Police and Provocateurs’, with the following brief report: ‘V. L. Burtsev, the famous writer and political activist, is renowned for exposing the Azefovshchina so zealously cultivated by Stolypin. Currently, by order of the Provisional Government, Burtsev is systematizing the affairs of the secret police, the Gendarmerie, and the Department of the Police.’3 And indeed, with every passing day, the Komissiia Burtseva (Burtsev Commission), as it became known, would emerge from its labours in the archives with the scalp of yet another traitorous revolutionary, student or journalist. But evidently, such successes did not find favour with Kerensky, the new Minister of Justice, who called Burtsev’s reliability into question believing he was simply not cut out for such systematic duties. Within three days of his appointment, Kerensky was already attempting to undermine the new commissioner, writing to Burtsev’s former co-editor Pavel Shchegolev and others, asking them to bypass Burtsev, examine the Department of Police documents themselves and report back directly to Kerensky. Indeed, according to Sergei Svatikov, both Kerensky and Shchegolev attempted to prevent Burtsev from gaining access to the police archives.

	...The commission managed to limp on for another three months until mid-June, when Kerensky succeeded in having it replaced by another body under Shchegolev’s official chairmanship.


Kerensky tries to stop Burtsev from uncovering his darkest secret that he is actually an Okhrana spy


cites something maybe related:


https://books.google.com/books?id=q7A1DgAAQBAJ&pg=PA190&lpg=PA190&dq=Muraviev+OR+Murav%27ev+commission+Burtsev&source=bl&ots=BT4aUP4cSQ&sig=32RxLtMswJ5E4tLHiRrWCDxJsqw&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwju6p2u5dzWAhWEz4MKHS4kAwYQ6AEIKzAB#v=onepage&q=Muraviev%20OR%20Murav%27ev%20commission%20Burtsev&f=false
	4 Robert P. Browder and Alexander F. Kerensky (eds), The Russian Provisinal Government, 1917: Documents, 3 vols (Stanford, 1961), 1: 194. This body was initially called the Supreme (Verkhovanaia) Investigatory Commission and was sometimes referred to as the "Murav'ev Commission", after its chair.


https://books.google.com/books?id=aXJR3pokBQsC&pg=PA234&lpg=PA234&dq=%22Supreme+investigatory+commission%22&source=bl&ots=-13v5LLzU2&sig=cXgQOYQVCZzLH3BwkLpfCVRil8I&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiCz-Wy59zWAhWk44MKHSt4DPoQ6AEIJjAA#v=onepage&q=%22Supreme%20investigatory%20commission%22&f=false
	I. The Supreme Investigatory Commission was an alternate name for the Extraordinary Investigatory Commission (ChSK), which the Provisional Government established in March 1917 to consider whether former tsarist officials had violated the law in their political activities. It ceased to meet after December 1917.



any other source on Kerensky trying to oust Burtsev? is interesting.



author of Burtsev book says this was Kerensky's motivation:


	...The frostiness which had arisen during the first meeting between Kerensky and Burtsev in the Trubetskoy Bastion some two years earlier had evidently not thawed.


but according to Henderson's Ph.d thesis:

https://qmro.qmul.ac.uk/jspui/bitstream/.../1/HENDERSONVladimirBurtsev2008.pdf


	...However, at the outbreak of war in 1914 he unexpectedly issued a call to all revolutionary and opposition parties to reach a compromise with the Russian government, so as to defend their homeland rather than betray it, and then announced his intention to return home, declaring his full support for both the government's domestic and foreign policies. However, on crossing the border he was immediately arrested, imprisoned in the Peter and Paul fortress and then sent into exile to the village of Monastyrskoe, in Turukhansk, Western Siberia. Following petitions (from, among others, A. F. Kerensky, later to become prime minister in the Provisional Government, and V. A. Maklakov (later Russian ambassador in Paris), he was allowed to return to Petrograd at the end of 1915, having served eighteen months of his sentence.


So this doesn't seem right.


...


https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=ru&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.universalinternetlibrary.ru%2Fbook%2F70296%2Fchitat_knigu.shtml&edit-text=&act=url
	...ARCHIVES, WITNESSES

	At the end of February - beginning of March 1917, almost simultaneously throughout Russia, fires burned, in which the documents of the Security Departments, the Gendarmerie Directorates, the Police Department and other services of the Ministry of the Interior of the Empire burned. The flame was absorbing priceless documents.

	In the first days of the February Revolution, enraged crowds of metropolitan residents set fire to the District Court building on Liteiny Prospekt and the old prison, the Lithuanian Castle, near the Theater Square. They burned to the ground. The fires broke out in the building of the Police Department on the Fontanka near the Panteleymonovsky Bridge and on Mytninskaya Embankment, where the Petrograd Security Department was smashed and burned. These two buildings with their contents were set on fire intentionally. Many wanted to exterminate the archives of the Security Department and the Special Department of the Police Department, they needed oblivion of the past as a guarantee of future existence.

	"True, here and there the gendarmerie officers managed to destroy lists of provocateurs," wrote the publicist SG Svatikov, "in some places a crowd, instigated by security agents, did not understand the meaning of what was happening, defeated the Security Departments and burned their archives and records. For example, a significant part of the archives of the Petrograd security department perished " [251] .

	All those who left memories of these strange fires of the spring of 1917 believed that their former guards had organized them.

	"Before the building of the Police Department," wrote the well-known archivist V. Maksakov, "huge fires of papers, documents, deeds, photographic cards thrown from the windows burned day and night on the Fontanka and Panteleymonovskaya street. In the room most of the cabinets were hacked, and books, files, individual papers piles covered the floors of a huge building. Some departments, for example, VIII office work, which dealt with cases of combating crime, were completely destroyed. Others suffered considerably. Fortunately, the room in which the Special Section of the Police Department was located did not suffer much. Here were the most valuable materials in the historical sense. They have been preserved almost completely " [252] .

	Someone reported on what was happening on the Fontanka in the Pushkin House of the Academy of Sciences. The indispensable secretary of the Academy of Sciences, Academician SF Oldenburg, was able to obtain several wagons, and an expedition consisting of PE Shchegolev, BL Modzalevsky, tl. A. Kotlyarevsky, A. S. Polyakov, A. A. Shilov, V. P. Semennikov and others, went to save the most valuable archives [253] . All that was saved, on March 3, was loaded into a sleigh and taken to the Vasilievsky Island to the Academy of Sciences. (Some of the saved documents were lost in 1918 when the archives were evacuated to Yaroslavl.) [254]

	In Moscow on March 1, 1917 in the palace along Gnezdnikovsky Lane, 5, bonfires flamed. Documents of the Security Department were burning. Someone wore papers in the bonfires, someone took for a folder, photos, brochures. "It was difficult to understand," wrote Maksakov, "who was more in this crowd," curious or former guards who aspired, as late as possible, to conceal in the fire of fires their traces of participation in the protection of the failed autocratic system. That there were a lot of former guards in the crowd could be seen from the fact that when checking the cases of the "secret police", especially its so-called "secret service department," it was subsequently found out that the lack of mainly personal files of secret employees, "agent notes" such documents, apparently, not accidentally disappeared during the "spontaneous" rout of the "secret police" and police stations.

	On the same day, a group of politicians and historians organized the protection of the documents of the "secret police" and their transportation to Red Square to the Moscow Historical Museum, where the reading room of the museum was adapted to accommodate archival materials " [255] .

	The situation was much worse in the provinces. There, the security offices burned simultaneously with the capital, first of all they destroyed personal affairs of secret employees and normative documents regulating the methods of the political investigation. News of the widespread destruction of the detective institutions of the former empire prompted the Provisional Government to urgently establish a Commission under the Ministry of Justice to liquidate the political affairs of the former Police Department. It was headed by the former Narodovolets VL Burtsev, who paid very little time to the Commission, which left part of the archives in the custody of their former custodians, officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Provisional Government "ordered the protection of police archives only when the official custodians left their posts and when many documents had already been plundered and destroyed" [256] .

	Seeing that the Burtsov Commission is inactive, on March 13, 1917, the Minister of Justice signed a letter with the following content:

	"I propose to Comrade Prosecutor Sluchevsky, PE Shchegolev, VM Zenzinov, NN Myasoyedov and Ensign Znamensky to review in the shortest possible time the documents seized in the Police Department and other institutions at my disposal and the results inform me.

	Minister of Justice AF Kerensky " [257] .

	The Burtsev commission was formally liquidated on June 15, 1917. Five days before its formation, the Provisional Government formed an Extraordinary Commission of Inquiry to investigate the unlawful actions of former ministers and other senior officials of civil, military and naval agencies [258] . In her work constantly participated: the famous Moscow lawyer NK Muraviev (chairman), senators SV Ivanov and SV Zavadsky (deputy chairmen), the chief military prosecutor VA Apushkin, the prosecutor of the Kharkov Chamber of Justice B. N. Smitten, prosecutor of the Moscow District Court LP Olyshev, academician S. F. Oldenburg, prosecutor of the Vilnius Chamber of Judges A. F. Romanov, representative of the State Duma F. I. Rodichev, from the Executive Committee of the Council of Workers 'and Soldiers' Deputies N. D. Sokolov and the only historian P. Ye. Schegolev. The Commission invited the poet AA Blok to assist the journalist Mikhail Miklashevsky and the writer L. Ya. Gurevich, the scientific editorial staff, and the editorial staff was assisted by Professor E. Tarle. 



Brackman book:

	August 1917 period, the Muraviev Commission had gathered some of the Department of
Police files that it needed for investigation of the most important cases of Okhrana
provocations. In September 1917 the Commission stopped its proceedings because of
Kerensky’s order to evacuate the archives, and its material together with the files of
Okhrana agents were placed in boxes that were sealed and stored in expectation of
evacuation, which, however, did not take place. The files remained in boxes for the next
two years, and at the end of 1919 were transported to Moscow together with the archive
of the Investigative Commission of the Supreme Tribunal



Taylor book:

	On occasion the Okhrana organized escapes and prison breaks to build the “cover” of its agents, and though it clung to the fiction that these were merely passive informants, many of them were agents provocateurs in the most literal sense. Though the investigating committee set up under the Kerensky regime could not find documentary proof that the Okhrana had deliberately instigated street demonstrations and rebellions, there is a wealth of informed testimony that it did so, notably in the great Moscow uprising of 1905 and in similar bloody disorders in Kronstadt and Viborg.


Kerensky couldn't find documentary proof? I wonder why...


------


here's the commission:

https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=ru&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=https%3A%2F%2Fru.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2F%25D0%25A7%25D1%2580%25D0%25B5%25D0%25B7%25D0%25B2%25D1%258B%25D1%2587%25D0%25B0%25D0%25B9%25D0%25BD%25D0%25B0%25D1%258F_%25D1%2581%25D0%25BB%25D0%25B5%25D0%25B4%25D1%2581%25D1%2582%25D0%25B2%25D0%25B5%25D0%25BD%25D0%25BD%25D0%25B0%25D1%258F_%25D0%25BA%25D0%25BE%25D0%25BC%25D0%25B8%25D1%2581%25D1%2581%25D0%25B8%25D1%258F_%25D0%2592%25D1%2580%25D0%25B5%25D0%25BC%25D0%25B5%25D0%25BD%25D0%25BD%25D0%25BE%25D0%25B3%25D0%25BE_%25D0%25BF%25D1%2580%25D0%25B0%25D0%25B2%25D0%25B8%25D1%2582%25D0%25B5%25D0%25BB%25D1%258C%25D1%2581%25D1%2582%25D0%25B2%25D0%25B0&edit-text=&act=url
	An Extraordinary Investigative Commission for the Investigation of the Unlawful Actions of Former Ministers, Governors and Other Senior Officials of Civil, Military and Naval Departments [1] (BSC) is an extraordinary investigative body established on March 4 (17), 1917 by the Provisional Government after the February Revolution .

	...Nikolai Konstantinovich Muravyov was appointed Chairman of the UCM, with the rights of the Comrade Minister of Justice.

	The commission was divided into three parts: the investigative unit, the supervisory body and the presidium.

	The investigative unit consisted of persons of the judicial department in the number of up to 20 people. These persons carried out investigations, interrogations, inspections, searches in compliance with the rules of the Charter of the Criminal Proceedings. 


	....In total, the commission made 88 interviews and questioned 59 persons, preparing "verbatim records", the editor-in-chief of which was the poet AA Blok , who published his observations on interrogations and records in the form of a book called "The Last Days of Imperial Power" 3] .

	Interrogations of tsarist ministers, generals and dignitaries were conducted in the Winter Palace and in the casemates of the Peter and Paul Fortress . Although the Commission was exclusively legal in nature, the materials were collected immensely, but the course of events did not allow the publication of even a relatively small part of them. The commission did not complete its work before the October Revolution, part of the interrogation was published in 7 volumes in 1924 - 1927 under the title "The Fall of the Tsarist Regime"


and then they stormed the Okhrana HQ and burned their files


------

https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=ru&u=http://ru-history.livejournal.com/4220161.html&prev=search
	The Past Journal in 1917.
	The editorial staff of the journal Byloe in 1917, according to announcements in it (in the digitized copy No. 3 (25) there is no announcement), included:
- V.L. Burtsev - №1 (23), July, № 2 (24), August, №3 (25), September, №4 (26), October;
- V.V. Water carriers - №1 (23), July, № 2 (24), August, №3 (25), September, №4 (26), October; according to F.M. Lurie, referring to P.E. Schegoleva, "Vodovozov in the journal did not conduct any editorial work, but only published several articles and short memoirs" [9, p. 114-115];
- prof. E.V. Tarle - № 2 (24), August, №3 (25), September, №4 (26), October; according to F.M. Lurie, Tarle in 1917 "was listed" among the editors of the three issues of the magazine [9, p. 115];
- P.E. Schegolev - №1 (23), July, №2 (24), August, №3 (25), September, №4 (26), October, №5-6 (27-28), November-December - starting with This number Shchegolev becomes the only editor of the Past.
	Schegolev wrote about his activity in 1917 in his autobiography as follows [10, p. 119]:

    	In 1917 the revolution again tears me away from historical and literary works and returns again to historical and literary problems. In the first days of March 1917, A.F. Kerensky suggested that I take in my jurisdiction and proceed to the analysis of all those materials that were preserved in the premises of the Police Department at No. 16 Fontanka and made up my own archive of the 3rd branch and a huge production from the moment of occurrence to the current day (1880-1917). This huge material, broken and scattered in the first days of the revolution, carried to different places (to the Academy of Sciences, to the Ministry of Justice), was collected under my leadership and concentrated in one place and was under different names ... 


	About work in the former Schegolev wrote [11, p. 119-120]:

    	The initiative for the renewal of [the journal's edition] was mine; initial composition of the editorial board: I, V.L. Burtsev and V.V. Vodovozov, who replaced V.Ya. Bogucharsky, who died in 1915. Burtsev, engaged in political speeches and developing the propaganda of war in his newspaper "The Common Cause" until the victorious end, almost did not engage in the affairs of the "Bygone", after the October Revolution he completely disregarded the editing and left in January 1918 [sic!] From Soviet Russia. And V.V. Water carriers; he was succeeded by E.V. Tarle, but he worked for a short time (1918 year [sic!]). In fact, I did all the editing work, and after the departure of Tarle [at the end of 1917] and until recently I remained the sole editor. 


------

https://athens.indymedia.org/media/old/pearson_-_the_sealed_train__1975_.pdf
	While Lenin was exploring these bizarre plans to travel to Russia, Alexandra Kollontai was 
planning to leave Norway for Petersburg.  She had cabled him a request for “directives” 
(“Just imagine thinking about ‘directives’ from here,” commented Lenin with mock wonder) 
and now on the nineteenth he wired her the line she was to take in Russia :  “Our tactics :  No 
trust in and no support of the new government.  Kerensky is especially suspect.  No 
rapprochement with other parties. . . .”
Lenin’s comrades found it strange that he should attach such importance to Alexander 
Kerensky, who was only a junior minister in the new government.  Other men seemed far 
more formidable.  But even then Lenin seemed to sense that in the conflict that faced him 
when eventually he got to Petersburg, Kerensky would be his most critical adversary.  It was 
a belief that was marked with historical irony, for out of all the territory of the Russias, 
Kerensky also came from the little Volga town of Simbirsk.  His father had even taught 
Lenin in school, and after the death of Lenin’s father—according to an assertion by 
Kerensky—he became the family guardian.
Kerensky, who was ten years younger than Lenin, was in the right wing of the SR party.


book says Lenin was interested in Kerensky during his train ride, but author is sketchy


------

http://alexanderartemsakharov.blogspot.com/2011/01/lenins-progress.html
	After the hanging of Alexander Ulyanov, they (naturally) started looking very closely at the Ulyanov family. Can you find a better undercover agent than a close relative of a revolutionary martyr? Vladimir filled the bill very nicely. Age 17, on the doorstep of college, very ambitious, and very vulnerable. The circumstances of his recruitment and all of his subsequent relationship with the police were dutifully recorded in his police file, which in 1917 fell into the hands of the Provisional Government of Russia, formed after the abolition of the monarchy. Incredibly, it was Prime Minister Kerensky’s decision not to use this explosive file against Lenin during the shaky interregnum of 1917, for reasons I will reveal in a later entry… After the Bolsheviks came to power, the file was destroyed.


this true? first impression is not to believe it.


https://books.google.com/books?id=PY2RAgAAQBAJ
	Most of Lenin's supporters thought that he should prove his innocence in court, and did not believe that the German government had spent huge sums, more than 50 million gold marks, to finance BOlshevik propaganda. Only the very narrow circle of people around Parvus and Ganetsky and the Politburo members Zinoviev, Kamanev and Stalin knew about the German money, and they advised Lenin not to risk a trial. Lenin expressed the view that there would not be an open court. Stalin agreed, suggesting that the arresting officers would kill Lenin on the way to prison. That very moment Elana Stasova, Lenin's confidante, came in and said that a rumor had been spread that Lenin 'according to the documents of the police department, was a *provocateur*'. Everybody fell silent. Stasova's announcement 'produced an incredibly strong impression on Lenin A nervous shudder ran over his face, and he declared with the utmost determination that he must got to jail.' Lenin's determination was short-lived, however, and he decided to go into hiding.


Brackman kindof agrees. I guess he's saying Lenin's reaction lends credence to the rumors of a damming police file.


for Lenin's reaction, Brackman cites Tolstoy's book on Stalin and this book:

https://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=ru&u=https://www.e-reading.club/book.php%3Fbook%3D1004632&prev=search


does seem to confirm the account of the rumor and Lenin's reaction:

	Их нет уже в живых. Остались только наброски воспоминаний, записки.

	Орджоникидзе:"Юнкера рыщут повсюду — ищут Ленина. Разговоры: "Удрал к Вильгельму", "Найдешь ты его, как бы не так".
	Таврический дворец. Здесь только и говорят о нашем выступлении, о том, что у нас в организации не все обстоит благополучно. Так говорят левые с.-р., так говорят даже некоторые довольно видные большевики. В рабочих районах минутное смущение, но оно живо проходит. Среди солдат — павловцев и измайловцев довольно ясно слышны голоса: "Подвели, мы не знали, что большевики германские шпионы".
	Ленина ищут, но не находят. Некоторые наши товарищи ставят вопрос о том, что Ленину нельзя скрываться, он должен явиться. "Иначе у партии не будет возможности оправдаться перед широкими массами".
	"Вождю партии брошено тяжкое обвинение, он должен предстать перед судом и оправдать себя и партию". Так рассуждали очень многие видные большевики.
	…Направляемся к Ленину, он должен быть на квартире у Николая Гурьевича Полетаева (бывший депутат Государственной думы, рабочий Путиловского завода), кажется на 8-й Рождественской. Торопимся, так как в Таврическом — упорные слухи, что Полетаев, по данным архива департамента полиции, провокатор. Спешим к Ильичу, надо его предупредить об этом, надо перевести его оттуда, не то могут нагрянуть на квартиру Николая Гурьевича и там застать Ильича. Приходим — его уже нет.
	Жена Полетаева сообщила, что Ленин перешел от них на квартиру Аллилуева. Сергея Яковлевича мы знали многие годы. У нас на Кавказе он был одним из первых социал-демократов. Неоднократно руководил политическими забастовками в Главных железнодорожных мастерских в Тифлисе и на Бакинских нефтяных промыслах. Приходилось бывать и на петроградской квартире Аллилуева — на 10-й Рождественской.
	Ленин и Крупская там. Не успели мы сесть, как вошли Ногин и В. Яковлева. Пошли разговоры о том, надо ли Владимиру Ильичу явиться и дать себя арестовать. Ногин довольно робко высказался за то, что надо явиться и перед гласным судом дать бой. Ильич заметил, что никакого гласного суда не будет, Сталин добавил: "Юнкера до тюрьмы не доведут, убьют по дороге". Ленин, по всему видно, тоже против, но немного смущает его Ногин.
	Как раз в это время заходит Елена Стасова. Она, волнуясь, сообщает, что в Таврическом дворце вновь пущен слух, якобы по документам архива департамента полиции Ильич — провокатор! Эти слова произвели на Ленина невероятно сильное впечатление. Нервная дрожь перекосила его лицо, и он со всей решительностью заявил, что надо ему сесть в тюрьму, Ильич объявил это нам тоном, не допускающим возражений".

	Крупская:"Седьмого июля мы вместе с Марией Ильиничной были на квартире Аллилуевых… Это как раз момент колебания у Ильича. Он приводил доводы за необходимость явиться на суд. Мария Ильинична горячо возражала ему. "Мы с Григорием решили явиться, пойди скажи об этом Каменеву", — попросил меня Ильич. Я заторопилась. "Давай попрощаемся, — остановил меня Владимир Ильич, — может, не увидимся уж". Мы обнялись.
	Вечером у нас на Широкой был обыск. Обыскивали только нашу комнату. Был какой-то полковник и еще какой-то военный в шинели на белой подкладке. Они взяли из стола несколько записок, какие-то мои документы. Спросили, не знаю ли я, где Ильич, из чего я заключила, что он не объявился",

	Орджоникидзе:"Меня и Ногина посылают в Таврический дворец для переговоров с членом президиума ЦИК и Петроградского Совета Анисимовым об условиях содержания Ильича в тюрьме. Мы должны были добиться от него гарантий, что Ленин не будет растерзан озверевшими юнкерами. Надо было добиться, чтобы Ильича посадили в Петропавловку (там гарнизон был наш), или же, если посадят в "Кресты", добиться абсолютной гарантии, что он не будет убит и предстанет перед гласным судом. В случае утвердительного ответа, Анисимов под вечер на автомобиле подъезжает к условному подъезду на 8-й Рождественской, где его встречает Ленин, и оттуда везет Ильича в тюрьму, где, конечно, его прикончили бы, если бы этой величайшей, преступной глупости суждено было совершиться.
	Мы с Ногиным явились в Таврический и вызвали Анисимова. Рассказали ему о решении Ильича и потребовали абсолютной гарантии. На Петропавловку он не согласился. Что касается гарантии в "Крестах", заявил, что, конечно, будут приняты все меры. Я решительно потребовал от него абсолютных гарантий (чего никто не мог дать!), пригрозив, что в случае чего-либо перебьем всех их. Анисимов был рабочий Донбасса. Мне показалось, что его самого охватывает ужас от колоссальной ответственности этого дела. Еще несколько минут, и я заявил ему: "Мы вам Ильича не дадим". Ногин тоже согласился с этим. Спешу обратно на квартиру Аллилуева. При выходе встречаю Луначарского, который утром был в большой панике.
	Анатолий Васильевич поручил мне передать Ленину, чтобы он ни в коем случае не садился в тюрьму, ибо в данный момент в руках коалиции находится власть только формально, фактически же она у корниловцев, а завтра, может быть, и формально перейдет к ним. Это меня очень обрадовало


translates to:

	They are no longer alive. Remained only a sketch of memories, notes.
	
	Ordzhonikidze: "Junkers are scouring everywhere - they are looking for Lenin." Conversations: "I ran away to Wilhelm," "You will find him, as it were not so."
	The Tauride Palace. Here they only talk about our speech, about the fact that in our organization, not everything is going well. This is what the Left Socialist-Revolutionaries say, as even some quite prominent Bolsheviks say. In the working areas, a momentary embarrassment, but it is alive. Among the soldiers - Pavlovians and Izmaylovites - the voices are clearly heard: "They let us down, we did not know that the Bolsheviks were German spies."
	They are looking for Lenin, but they do not find him. Some of our comrades raise the question that Lenin can not hide, he must come. "Otherwise, the party will not have the opportunity to justify itself before the broad masses."
	"The leader of the party is heavily accused, he must stand trial and justify himself and the party." So many prominent Bolsheviks argued.
	... Going to Lenin, he should be at the apartment with Nikolai Gurevich Poletayev (former deputy of the State Duma, worker of the Putilov plant), it seems on the 8th Christmas. We are in a hurry, because in Tavrichesky there are persistent rumors that Poletayev, according to the archive of the police department, is a provocateur. We rush to Ilyich, we must warn him about this, we must transfer him from there, or they might come to Nikolai Gurievich's apartment and find Ilich there. We arrive - it is no longer there.
	Poletaeva's wife reported that Lenin had moved from them to Alliluyev's apartment. We knew Sergei Yakovlevich for many years. He was one of the first Social-Democrats in the Caucasus. He repeatedly directed political strikes at the Main Railway Workshops in Tiflis and the Baku oil fields. I had to visit Alliluyev's Petrograd apartment on the 10th Christmas Day.
	Lenin and Krupskaya are there. We did not have time to sit down, as Nogin and V. Yakovlev entered. Talk about whether Vladimir Ilyich should appear and let himself be arrested. Nogin rather timidly spoke out for having to appear before a public court to fight. Ilyich noticed that there would be no vowel trial, Stalin added: "The Junkers will not be brought to the prison, they will be killed on the way." Lenin, by all accounts, is also against, but Nogin is somewhat embarrassed.
	Just at this time comes Elena Stasova. She, worried, informs that in the Tavrichesky palace rumor is again started, according to the documents of the archive of the police department, Ilyich is a provocateur! These words made an incredibly powerful impression on Lenin. The nervous trembling twisted his face, and he declared with all determination that he should go to prison, Ilyich declared it to us in a tone that did not object. "
	
	Krupskaya: "On July 7, together with Maria Ilyinichna, we were at the apartment of the Alliluyevs ... This is exactly the moment of hesitation in Ilyich, he argued for the need to appear at the trial." Maria Ilyinichna hotly objected to him: "Grigory and I decided to show up, go tell Kamenev about this "Ilyich asked me, I hurried on." Let's say goodbye, "Vladimir Ilyich stopped me," maybe we will not see each other again. "We embraced.
	In the evening we had a search on Shiroka. They searched only our room. There was a colonel and some other military man in a greatcoat on a white lining. They took a few notes from the table, some of my documents. They asked me if I did not know where Ilyich was, from what I concluded that he had not showed up, "
	
	Ordzhonikidze: "Me and Nogin are sent to the Tauride Palace for negotiations with a member of the Presidium of the Central Executive Committee and the Petrograd Soviet Anisimov about the conditions of Ilyich's detention in jail.We should have secured from him guarantees that Lenin would not be torn to pieces by the brutal Junkers.It was necessary to get Ilyich planted in Petropavlovka (there was our garrison there), or if they put him in the "Crosses", to obtain an absolute guarantee that he will not be killed and will appear before a public court. "If the answer is" Yes ", Anisimov arrives in the evening by car ovnomu entrance on 8th Christmas, where he is met by Lenin, and from there driven by Ilyich in prison, where, of course, it would have killed if this great, criminal stupidity was destined to happen.
	Nogin and I appeared in Tavrichesky and summoned Anisimov. They told him about Ilyich's decision and demanded an absolute guarantee. He did not agree to Petropavlovka. As for the guarantee in the "Crosses", he said that, of course, all measures will be taken. I strongly demanded absolute guarantees from him (which no one could give!), Threatening that in the event of something we would kill all of them. Anisimov was a worker in the Donbas. It seemed to me that he himself was horrified by the colossal responsibility of this affair. A few more minutes, and I told him: "We will not give you Ilich." Nogin also agreed with this. I hasten back to Alliluyev's apartment. At the exit I meet Lunacharsky, who in the morning was in great panic.
	Anatoly Vasilevich instructed me to tell Lenin not to go to jail in any case, for at the moment the power is only formally in the hands of the coalition, in fact it is from the Kornilovites, and tomorrow, perhaps, formally will pass to them. This made me very happy



the part from Trotsky's book (Stalin: an appraisal of the man):


	In her reminiscences Krupskaya states: “On the 7th I visited Ilyich at his quarters in the apartment of the Alliluyevs together with Maria Ilyinichna [Lenin’s sister]. This was just at the moment when Ilyich was wavering. He marshalled arguments in favor of the necessity to appear in court. Maria Ilyinichna argued against him hotly. ‘Gregory [Zinoviev] and I have decided to appear. Go and tell Kamenev about it,’ Ilyich told me. I made haste. ‘Let’s say good-bye,’ Vladimir Ilyich said to me, ’we may never see each other again.’ We embraced. I went to Kamenev and gave him Vladimir Ilyich’s message. In the evening Stalin and others persuaded Ilyich not to appear in court and thereby saved his life.”


Krupskaya says Stalin convinced Lenin not to go to court


	These trying hours were described in greater detail by Ordzhonikidze. “The fierce hounding of our Party leaders began … Some of our comrades took the point of view that Lenin must not hide, that he must appear … So reasoned many prominent Bolsheviks. I met Stalin in the Tauride Palace. We went together to see Lenin …” The first thing that strikes the eye is the fact that during those hours when “a fierce hounding of our Party leaders” was going on, Ordzhonikidze and Stalin calmly meet at the Tauride Palace, headquarters of the enemy, and leave it unpunished.


Trotsky accusing Ordzhonikidze and Stalin of conferring with cops?


	The same old argument was renewed at Alliluyev’s apartment: to surrender or to hide? Lenin supposed that there would be no open trial. More categorical than any other against surrender was Stalin: “The Junkers [military students, equivalent of West Pointers] won’t take you as far as prison, they’ll kill you on the way …” At that moment Stassova appeared and informed them of a new rumor—that Lenin was, according to the documents of the Police Department, a provocateur. “These words produced an incredibly strong impression on Lenin. A nervous shudder ran over his face, and he declared with the utmost determination that he must go to jail.” Ordzhonikidze and Nogin were sent to the Tauride Palace, to attempt to persuade the parties in power to guarantee “that Ilyich would not be lynched … by the Junkers.” But the frightened Mensheviks were seeking guarantees for themselves. Stalin in his turn reported at the Petrograd Conference: “I personally posed the question of making a declaration to Lieber and Anissimov [Mensheviks, members of the Soviet Central Executive Committee], and they replied to me that they could not give guarantees of any kind.” After this feeler in the camp of the enemy, it was decided that Lenin should leave Petrograd and hide securely underground. “Stalin undertook to organize Lenin’s departure.”


so what did Lenin think of the warning from Stasova? cops black-mailing him? The Tiflis bank robbery would probably have given them something on him.

Account from Ordzhonikidze's biography says the rumor was in "Tavrichesky palace"

	"that in the Tavrichesky palace rumor is again started, according to the documents of the archive of the police department, Ilyich is a provocateur!"


but the Trotsky and Brackman tellings don't say that


https://books.google.com/books?id=nnIQ1B25EV8C&pg=PA69
	Elena Stasova usually stood close to the money, ready to snatch it up should the police arrive, for such solicitation of contributions was illegal. The Okhrana, the police agency charged with supressing revolutionaries, in fact knew that the Stasovs were collecting money for the Social Democrats, but was loath to move against them after 1900, because a raid in that year had netted the local Okhrana commander a reprimand from the high-ranking relative of on of the guests.

	Stasova was also very good at maintaining communications between Social-Democratic organizations, both within Russia and abroad, She committed to memory the names (or aliases) of hundreds of people, their addresses, and the addresses of apartments where they could hide from the police. She built up caches of forged passports and other documents. She worked out codes for correspondence, mastered writing in invisible ink, helped people on the run with their disguises, and survived numerous mishaps and catastrophes--such as when she once mistakenly died a comrade's hair green! Practiced at spotting police surveillance, she knew how to transport loads of illegal pamphlets around the city in a briefcase.



http://alexanderartemsakharov.blogspot.com/2011/01/lenins-progress.html
	...Kerensky now decided that the time had finally come to get rid of Lenin once and for all. Through her ubiquitous contacts, Elena Stasova was able to learn that Kerensky was considering releasing Lenin’s lethally compromising file to the press.

	As soon as Lenin heard this, he knew he was as good as dead and he fled from the Russian capital north into Finland. Before fleeing, however, he ventured to strike an outrageous gambit. Through the selfsame Stasova he urged a preemptive release to the press of the documents, in his own possession, suggesting that he was a German agent of influence, subsidized by Kaiser Wilhelm II.

	The bombshell exploded, preempting Kerensky’s own disclosure of the Okhrana file. The press was having a field day, salivating over Lenin’s German ties. Everybody was convinced that this time Lenin was finished for good, but Lenin alone seemed to realize that this was his only chance to survive, and to win the game.


that's an interesting explanation

did get the impression that other agents of influence were trying to emphasize Lenin's German ties over his Okhrana ties.

Would be one explanation for why the press (and apparently the Okhrana) went along with the "German agent" thing and promoted it--if it caught on, it would make any revelation that Lenin was an Okhrana agent seem less credible.


------

Denekin on Kornilov affair:

https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=ru&tl=en&js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&u=http%3A%2F%2Fclaw.ru%2Fbook19%2Frevolt%2Fdenia002.htm&edit-text=&act=url



------

taylor book:

	...The particular tragedy of the Democratic Socialists like Alexander Kerensky, of the liberal monarchists like Paul Milyukov, of the more-or-less enlightened conservatives like Alexander Guchkov, who for several weeks or months had been actively plotting an anti-autocratic coup of some kind—Kerensky in February had publicly called for the elimination of the Czar “by terrorist means if necessary,” and the Chief of Staff General Alexeyev had a plan for arresting the Czarina and forcing a change of government on Nicholas at gun-point—is that before they could act they were thrust into honorary leadership of a ready-made revolution which they had had no hand in organizing.

	...The Duma itself, or at least its principal members, had joined the rebellion on March 11, by defying an Imperial decree of prorogation. Instead of disbanding, the deputies had on the following day set up a so-called Emergency Committee, chaired by the Duma’s President, the portly, Conservative M. V. Rodzianko, and consisting of the chief Progressive Bloc leaders—Milyukov, Lvov, Guchkov, Basil Shulgin, et al—plus a left-wing maverick, the former Revolutionary Socialist Alexander Kerensky. We are so used to thinking of him as the Kerensky of the Russian Revolution, that we tend to forget he was really its Danton. A lean, tense, jerky man with short-cut hair and the sharp beak of a high-minded cormorant, Kerensky, despite his subsequent reputation, had exceptional energy and courage, and he was the greatest soap-box orator in Russia (certainly with Trotsky in America). The situation was made to order for him (and he, alas, for it).

	The revolutionary crowd instinctively drifted to the Duma, the nearest thing to an opposition forum in Czarist Russia, seeking news, inspiration, and instructions. Kerensky was prodigal with all three. He alone of the Duma Committee was in his element receiving the impromptu delegations of battle-stained, disheveled soldiers, of red-eyed, grim-featured workers and of hysterical students who milled around the lobbies of the Tauride Palace, shouting, sweating, gesticulating, brandishing weapons, and spitting on the floor. Between inspirational harangues he would dart into the crowd to rescue with his own hands some elderly, terrified general, countess, or ex-minister whom the revolution had dragged in, like a cat with a crippled bird in its mouth. (Protopopov, found hiding at his tailor’s, was narrowly saved from lynching by Kerensky’s intervention.) Everyone was quaffing down great draughts of raw history, the most intoxicating kind.


Kerensky protecting certain people in the Tsarist regime from revolutionary mobs? would be interesting to see which ones he picked


	...“While the mass of workers and peasants were indifferent to the foreign policies of the Czar and his government,” Kerensky later testified, “the intellectuals, the bourgeoisie and some of the higher-ranking officer-class thought they detected in the foreign and domestic policies of the Czar, and more particularly in the intrigues of the Czarina, a definite tendency to lead the country to its ruin for the sole purpose of concluding a separate peace and an alliance with Germany.”


What's up with this? Kerensky big on attacking/raising suspicious of Germany. Also testified he believed Lenin acted as a German agent.

This intentional? would be an excuse for him to continue the war. He could subscribe to the idea that the Bolsheviks, propagandizing of army, terrorist attacks were by Germany, and so the defeat of Germany would be the only way to stop it. Painting a separate peace as their aims would give him and others around him an excuse not to stop the war. Meanwhile, a separate peace might have been the only way to stop the war for Russia, and Kerensky ignored signs that it was the Okhrana themselves who were responsible for some of the provocations.


	...Oddly enough, the Bolsheviks, though they were better staffed with experienced and uninhibited agitators than most of the revolutionary parties, were not spectacularly successful in these bloodless street battles of ideas, at least when this target was the masses. The Russian peasant, the Russian worker and the Russian soldier in 1917 were all for pie-in-the-sky and peace on earth but they generally disapproved of civil massacre and organized defeatism as means of attaining them. Lenin’s ruthless bid for power, his program of revolutionary dictatorship and his call for immediate peace at any price seemed shocking to idealistic Russian leftists, including some of his own party. In June when he announced before an all-Russian congress of soviets that the Bolsheviks were ready to take over the government at any moment, and that their first act would be to hang fifty or a hundred capitalists, Kerensky indignantly interrupted him. “You Bolsheviks,” he shouted from the floor, “what are you? Socialists or police of the old regime?” Not only the congress, but most of Russia applauded the rebuke.


funny


	...“Would you have mastered the Bolsheviks if you had made a separate peace?” Lord Beaverbrook, the British publisher, asked Kerensky when they were introduced in a London club by Sir Bruce Lockhart, who relates the anecdote in his memoirs, British Agent, “Of course,” Kerensky replied (according to Lockhart). ‘We should be in Moscow now.”


somehow, Kerensky figures it out too late


	Some skepticism is permissible, given the caliber of the opposition that Kerensky faced and the inherent weaknesses of the dual-power system in Russia that he had helped to set up.


Referring to the Soviet/Provisional Government thing? not sure how Kerensky helped set that up should look into that


	...One was the land-hunger of the peasants which left-wing demagogy exploited by agitating for immediate distribution of private estates. The other was the national aspirations of the Empire’s subject peoples: Poles, Finns, Ukrainians, Baltic nations, and the smaller ethnic minorities. All these submerged nations began to stir after the March Revolution; a bold federalist program might have held their separatist tendencies within bounds and at the same time have won over their middle classes as allies of Russian democracy against the Bolshevik threat. Instead, as the German historian Georg von Rauch puts it, “The Provisional Government remained as before a slave of the narrow, nationalist and centralist thinking of the overthrown Czarist regime,” and the minorities became more and more alienated.


Kerensky government said to have had poor domestic policy


	...There is no doubt, however, that the Provisional Government in trying to keep Russia in the war killed whatever slender chances of survival it may have had. George Kennan argues rather convincingly that only a general compromise peace might possibly have saved the democratic regime in Russia. President Wilson, who in his speech of April 2, 1917, calling for a declaration of war against the Central Powers had hailed “the wonderful and heartening things that have been happening the last few weeks in Russia,” made no move in the direction of peace—quite the contrary—and neither did the other Allied leaders. Instead they put heavy pressure on the new Russian government to fight on to victory. When Milyukov at the beginning of May pledged Russia to do exactly that—the pledge was in the form of a diplomatic note to Russia’s allies—he provoked the first political crisis of the new regime. The Finnish Regiment threatened to mutiny and there were riots in the capital. To ease the strain, Milyukov and Guchkov resigned, Prince Lvov brought several moderate socialists into the government and Kerensky took over the War Ministry.

	The warning did not suffice. The Allies not only stepped up their pressure on the Provisional Government to stay in the war—“No fight, no loans,” as former Secretary of State Elihu Root succinctly put it when he arrived at the head of an American aid mission in June—but began insisting that the battered, disorganized Russian armies once more take the offensive. Kerensky, despite his earlier misgivings (and his later hindsight) responded enthusiastically to this suicidal demand. Wearing a peasant blouse and a military cap he toured the trenches, haranguing the troops. He replaced Alexeyev as commander-in-chief with General A. A. Brusilov, the most brilliant, and reputedly the most socialist of the Russian generals; he somehow persuaded the military soviets to co-operate with the officer corps in restoring discipline. On the home front he instigated a vigorous campaign against defeatism. Even the Ex Com of the Petrograd Soviet joined in with an appeal to the soldiers which informed them that they were no longer “fighting for the Czar, for Protopopov, Rasputin and the rich, but for Russian freedom and the Revolution.”


To put this in perspective: meanwhile in Germany, anti-war riots in the peace, Reichstag passess resolution for general peace, high command ignores them and carries on the war, obsessed with a separate peace with Russia, which they are convinced Lenin will give them.


	...The leftist fiasco in the July days, as the abortive uprising is usually termed, temporarily saved the Provisional Government from the consequences of the debacle at the front, and brought Kerensky to the Premiership—he succeeded Prince Lvov on July 20. The Bolshevik role in the disorders had destroyed any remaining illusions Kerensky may have had about Lenin, Trotsky, and their companions as being “normal” Socialist leaders, just a little more extreme in their views perhaps, than others. The Bolsheviks, Kerensky now realized, were ruthless and incorrigible conspirators. Evidence collected by the Russian military counterespionage service purporting to establish that Lenin was a paid German agent played a big part in this phase of Kerensky’s political education. With his acute sense of propaganda he made the dubious information the basis for a violent campaign against the Bolsheviks, accusing them—among other crimes—of having deliberately fomented the July rising on orders from their German employers to support the counteroffensive on the Galician front. The evidence available to Kerensky in 1917, while sometimes dose to the truth, was not true evidence; it led him to underestimate his adversaries—if the Bolshevik leaders had been German agents, mere venal adventurers, they would have proved much less dangerous than they turned out to be—and it may help to explain why the governmental smear campaign against the party, after initially arousing a great deal of patriotic indignation, eventually ceased to interest the Russian public.{


The "Lenin is a German agent" idea serving as a pretext to crack down on the Bolsheviks.


	...The demonstration seemed all the more useful, from Kerensky’s viewpoint, because at the moment he was drawing closer to the right. He had agreed to restore the death penalty in the army and had appointed General Kornilov, a stem disciplinarian, commander-in-chief.



appointed Kornilov, restored death penalty (exploited in Bolshevik propaganda)


	...Kerensky, of course, was not solely to blame for what happened. Kornilov’s lack of political maturity, his impatience, and probably his ambition were contributory factors. So were the divergent intrigues or pressures of Russia’s allies: the British and French military attachés were egging on Kornilov, while the U.S. Embassy encouraged Kerensky to resist his demands. At first the two men agreed, or thought they had agreed, on the need for a firm hand both in the army and on the home front. Then Kornilov began to feel that Kerensky was weaseling out of his agreements, while Kerensky came to look on Kornilov as a potential rival and as a threat to Russian democracy. The noisy support that the right gave to what soon became known as “Kornilovism” naturally added to these fears. Kornilov, who was the son of a Siberian Cossack, was not a monarchist, but he believed that some form of rule more authoritarian than the existing Provisional Government was needed to rescue the nation from chaos, and he was quite frankly preparing a military coup against the Petrograd Soviet and its left-wing supporters. Kerensky gave the pugnacious commander-in-chief the impression that he acquiesced in the scheme, but he may have been misled about its full scope. The whole affair was a fearful and complex imbroglio in which reciprocal lack of confidence led each man to act more and more behind the other’s back, thereby generating graver suspicion. Finally, on September 9, with Kornilov’s Cossacks moving on Petrograd, Kerensky trapped him into some incriminating admissions and dismissed him from his post.


Then later Burtsev says there was a "compact" between them--what exactly did he mean by that?


	Kornilov retaliated with a pronunciamento against the Provisional Government and ordered his cavalry under General Krymov to occupy the capital. Kerensky appealed to the Petrograd Soviet for help and called the workers to arms. Trotsky, from his prison cell, urged the Bolsheviks to rally round the government, and a kind of informal popular front sprang up. Lenin’s followers eagerly accepted the weapons which were thrust in their hands. Apparently the Kornilovists had not expected mass resistance and the risk of civil war unnerved them. General Krymov allowed himself to be captured without a fight, then blew his brains out. Kornilov and his staff tamely submitted to arrest.

	That was the end of the putsch. It was, of course, also the end of Kerensky’s anti-Bolshevik front, which since the July days, had held together the more responsible elements of the left and the more intelligent elements of the right. Trotsky and most of the other imprisoned Bolshevik leaders were released. Kerensky proclaimed the republic, nominated himself president and commander-in-chief of the armed forces and set up a new government which included several leftists—among them the new War Minister, General Verkhovsky, the acting military attaché in Belgrade at the time of Sarajevo. For political support it relied upon the most incorrigibly fuzzy-minded elements of the non-Communist left; Mensheviks, Social-Revolutionaries, and allied splinter groups.


Then this is the reason for freeing and arming the Bolsheviks

	
	...Kerensky believed that in crushing the Kornilov putsch, which he had earlier encouraged, he had somehow won a major victory over the left as well as over the right.


then Kerensky acts suspicious in trying to make his alliance with the left, apparently Russians become suspicious of him


	...Soviet. Preparations for the coup had been camouflaged as defensive measures against a renewed assault of the “Kornilovists,” and a justificatory pretext for launching it was furnished by provoking the government into striking the first blow. During the night of November 6-7, the Bolshevik shock troops, mainly the Red Guard worker-militiamen whom Kerensky had thoughtlessly armed during the Kornilov scare stealthily infiltrated a number of key positions in the city. The sailors from the cruiser Aurora—which Kerensky had ordered to the capital in September—along with some mutinous machine-gun units and other troops joined the Bolsheviks. The bulk of the still-dependable army units with which the government might have crushed the revolt as in July had been removed from the vicinity of the capital out of fear of another rightist putsch. The loyal forces immediately available in Petrograd were inadequate, and within twenty-four hours the government, under bombardment in the Winter Palace, from the Aurora, was forced to capitulate.


Kerensky orders in red battleship, orders out white soldiers from capital (this is after he nominated himself president and commander-in-chief of the armed forces after Kornilov affair)


	It was probably the Bolsheviks' good luck that while most of the ministers were arrested Kerensky managed to escape and reach army headquarters at Pskov. His fiery appeals to drive the usurpers out of the capital led to a piecemeal and improvised counter-offensive that was doomed before it started. Many of the Russian generals who still retained some authority over their troops refused all sup- port to the man they considered mainly responsible for the country's mis- fortunes, while others were paralyzed by the fear of antagonizing the soldiers' Soviets. Finally Kerensky persuaded a Cossack commander, General P. N. Krasnov, to move on Petrograd with a sketchily equipped detachment of some 700 men. Whatever chance Krasnov had of regaining control in the capital with this force was lost through delay mainly the result of a strike called by the railway workers in the queer belief that they were making a useful protest against the Bolshevik coup d'etat. After a brief skirmish with a body of Red militia at Tsarskoe Selo, Krasnov's Cossacks began to show signs of disaffection, and Kerensky, who was accompanying them, gave up the fight, escaping in disguise. (He later slipped across the Finnish border with the help of the British agent Bruce Lockhart, and vanished into the wings of history.) A Bolshevik rising in Moscow to support the Petrograd one barely succeeded in the face of uncoordinated resistance.


Kerensky tries to unite generals against Bolsheviks but they all hate him or think troops won't support it. "Anti-Bolshevik" protest stops small force from retaking capital. Cossaks disband and Kerensky escapes in disguise--with the help of Bruce Lockhart?


------


http://spartacus-educational.com/RUSkerensky.htm
	...Kerensky joined the Russian Labour Party and in 1912 was elected to the State Duma. A socialist, Kerensky developed a strong following amongst industrial workers. He also played an important role in the exposure of Roman Malinovsky, one of the leaders of the Bolsheviks, as an undercover agent of the Okhrana.


interesting--help out Malinovksy?


------

http://spartacus-educational.com/RUSsrp.htm
	In 1896 the Northern Union of Socialist Revolutionaries was formed. This was followed by other such groups in other parts of Russia. In 1901, some of the leading figures in these groups, including Catherine Breshkovskaya, Victor Chernov, Gregory Gershuni, Nikolai Avksentiev, Alexander Kerensky and Evno Azef, founded the Party of Socialist Revolutionaries (SR).


http://spartacus-educational.com/RUSgershuni.htm
	At his trial Gershuni was sentenced to death, a sentence subsequently commuted to life imprisonment and hard labour. In 1905 he escaped from Akatui Prison in Eastern Siberia. After travelling via China and the USA, Gershuni arrived back in Europe in February, 1907.

	In exile Gershuni continued to argue for a campaign of terror in order to overthrow the Tsar in Russia. He strongly defended Evno Azef against claims being made that he was a traitor.


https://web.archive.org/web/20080921175641/https://odci.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of-intelligence/kent-csi/docs/v11i4a07p_0001.htm
	...Burtzev's triumph had been due partly to Agafonov and a split among Socialist Revolutionaries. The party's Central Committee had been formed in Paris under the leadership of a few exiled revolutionaries of considerable wealth such as Viktor Chernov and Mark Natanson.   In frequent conflict with these leaders were a number of professional people, lawyers and journalists in exile, most of them struggling for their livelihood. These, like Burtzev, considered the leaders too lax and complacent about the possibility of Okhrana penetrations.

	...After Natanson and Chernov, for example, had in 1913 approved a project to dispatch Ziama Kisin with a team to Petersburg to murder Minister of Education Kaso, Burtzev warned them that the conspiracy might have been penetrated by the Okhrana. When they wanted to go ahead with the operation despite his warnings, he threatened to expose them as provocateurs if anything should go wrong.   They had to drop the plan. 


some sketchy people in Kerensky's party


------

what was Okhrana up to with the political parties in Russia?

Beletsky might give some insight:

https://translate.google.ru/translate?hl=en&sl=ru&u=https://ru.wikisource.org/wiki/%25D0%25A1%25D1%2582%25D0%25B5%25D0%25BF%25D0%25B0%25D0%25BD_%25D0%259F%25D0%25B5%25D1%2582%25D1%2580%25D0%25BE%25D0%25B2%25D0%25B8%25D1%2587_%25D0%2591%25D0%25B5%25D0%25BB%25D0%25B5%25D1%2586%25D0%25BA%25D0%25B8%25D0%25B9&prev=search



------

https://archive.org/stream/preludetobolshev008537mbp/preludetobolshev008537mbp_djvu.txt

his excuses for the Kornilov affair?




------

relationship between Kerensky and Malinovksy worth looking at?



Brackman book says Kerensky did read one of his declarations to the Duma:

	His colleagues refused to support his idea. On 7 May 1914
Malinovsky provoked a scandal by making a blistering attack on the government,
demanding the declaration of absolute freedom of speech. Kerensky read this proposed
declaration in his speech to the Duma. Rodzianko warned him nine times to ‘stop
insulting the Duma’ and then deprived him of the right to speak. When Malinovsky
delivered his speech, Rodzianko, after two warnings, ordered him to stop, but
Malinovsky refused. The Duma police removed him from the hall by force. The next day,
Malinovsky walked into Rodzianko’s office and threw his resignation on the desk,
saying, ‘Excuse me, I am leaving the Duma. I have no time. Excuse me.’



------


from the Abraham biography:


	The authorities had their hands full and it is hardly surprising that they failed to charge Kerensky within the legal time limit. He became sufficiently indignant at this to go on hunger strike. After a few days, the authorities gave way, to the extent of charging him with the preparation of the violent overthrow of the government, an offense carrying a maximum penalty of perpetual hard labor, the counterproductive nature of this “victory” did not disturb him: “My hunger strike had been motivated by the desire to draw to the attention of the public the fact that the law continued to be violated despite the October Manifesto.”

	His friends let him down, suppressing news of his action to avoid worrying Olga—a misjudgement as she would certainly have publicized his gesture immediately.
	The capital's press was full of the indignities suffered by libertarian young people of good family. In fact they got almost as much attention as the massacres of rebellious workers and peasants.


was this a made-up story? maybe instead of a "hunger strike" he agreed to work for them.


	Kerensky was released “under the special surveillance of the police” on April 5, 1906, the day after Oleg's first birthday. He was to be banished from the capitals for several years while Vasiliev and the others were allowed to resume their normal occupations. Kerensky was livid: “I, who had done nothing but store some of their pamphlets in my apartment, was to have my whole life distorted.” It is just possible that this discrimination was due to his approach to the fighting organization. After a period of noncollaboration with the police department in the latter part of 1905, Azef resumed his former role in 1906. In due course, he would betray Klitchoglu and many others. One official is alleged to have mocked Kerensky with the taunt: ‘‘This one dreams of killing the Tsar.” Even more intriguing is the allegation of Okhrana General Gerasimov that Kerensky was the “head of the fighting group of the Socialist Revolutionaries of the Alexander-Nevsky District.”


police release him for some reason under "special surveillance of the police"

Okhrana General Gerasimov alleges Kerensky was the “head of the fighting group of the Socialist Revolutionaries of the Alexander-Nevsky District.”


source of that is: AK, Turning Point, 71–72; Kerenskii po DP, 6; Nicolaevsky, Aseff,
133; Savinkov, Memoirs, 323; Gerasimoff, Kampf, 77; AK interviewed by
E. Ivanoff, Tape No. 6, n.d., 6, Kerensky Papers, F.97.


Gerasimov was also Azef's handler


	Strings were pulled to enable Kerensky to meet the nominal director of the police department, with whose daughters he had once danced. Kerensky pointed out that exile would wreck his career and insisted that imprisonment would be preferable. Eventually it was agreed that he spend a long holiday with his father in Tashkent, less a compromise than a capitulation by the professional policemen, who retained their suspicions of him, to the pressure exercised by Kerensky's father's connections in society. In September 1906, after their return to St. Petersburg, the case was finally laid to rest.


has some sort of meeting with head of police


	On hearing of his son's arrest, Fyodor Kerensky had written a vitriolic letter to Olga, accusing her of ruining his son and predicting that should would ruin his grandson. The distraught Olga showed the letter to Elena, who told her to destroy it and never to mention it to Kerensky. Olga burnt it, but she could not quite follow her sister-in-law's advice to forget it, and she always retained bitter memories of the summer in Tashkent that followed. The old man's normally impeccable manners had deserted him and he barely managed to say “good morning” and “good night.” Even the presence of his grandchild failed to mollify him.


his father blames his wife Olga for ruining him


what was his relation with Azef? Okhrana apparently tried to control the Social Revolutionaries


from Abraham book:

	Unaware that he was already under surveillance, Kerensky tried to get into even deeper water in December 1905. This is one of several mysterious incidents in his life of which he never told Olga, and for which we have only his word. Outraged by Nicholas II's public patronage of the anti-Semitic “Union of the Russian People,” Kerensky decided to assassinate him. He therefore asked Zhenya Moiseenko to arrange a rendezvous for him with her brother Boris. Zhenya was at first reluctant to help; she was fond of Olga and baby Oleg was only eight months old. Still, her revolutionary duty was clear, and she arranged what proved to be the first of two meetings between Moiseenko and Kerensky. At the first, Kerensky explained his motives for wanting to join the Fighting Organization. At the second, Moiseenko informed him that his offer had been rejected in view of his inexperience. Kerensky was chagrined to find himself regarded in the same condescending light in which he saw the “revolutionary romantics” around him.

	Many years later, Moiseenko is alleged to have told Kerensky that he had been rejected at the behest of the Head of the Fighting Organization, Yevno Azef. This version was much more flattering to Kerensky's amour propre, since Azef had by then been shown up as a double agent. It may also be true. The Fighting Organization was overwhelmed by volunteers at this time (only the Okhrana itself received more offers of collaboration from the perennially destitute Russian intelligentsia). Azef always tried to put off recruits on principle (as a police agent) and for reasons of efficiency and security (as a terrorist).


so apparently tried to join Azefs terrorist squad

also says he plotted to assassinate the Tsar in December 1905, and his fellow "revolutionary" Evgenia (Zhenya) Moiseenko told Azef, an Okhrana agent. If true, would mean the Okhrana knew he plotted to assassinate the tsar since 1905, and depending on what he did might have had something to use on him. Was arrested (or at least released) in 1906. 


https://translate.google.ru/translate?hl=en&sl=ru&u=https://www.e-reading.club/chapter.php/147723/11/Fedyuk_-_Kerenskiii.html&prev=search
	So it all happened. The passer-by, who was Boris Moiseyenko, bent to light a cigarette, and at that moment Kerensky expressed his request in a whisper - he wanted to take part in the preparation of another terrorist act. Moiseenko promised to give an answer in a few days, but when the time came, he passed through his sister that nothing would turn out. Twelve years later, when Kerensky takes the ministerial seat, Boris Moiseyenko will return from emigration to Russia. Kerensky will remind him of this meeting, and Moiseenko will tell you that he refused at the insistence of the then leader of the militant organization of the Social Revolutionaries, Ye. F. Azef. 



from book "Kerensky" by F. V. Pavlovich, in a better format here: https://translate.google.ru/translate?hl=en&sl=ru&u=https://biography.wikireading.ru/107183&prev=search



https://translate.google.ru/translate?hl=en&sl=ru&u=http://eho-2013.livejournal.com/1012163.html&prev=search
	Kerensky was plotting the killing of the tsar. The same plans were borne by the members of the Combat Organization of the Socialist-Revolutionaries. Sometimes their approach was unnecessarily creative. Boris Savinkov recalled that they bought an airplane and set up a motor for a long flight to go up, throw bombs at the palace in Peterhof, where the Emperor Nikolai was with his family and close friends, and fly abroad ... In the country still military aviation is not really it was only being formed, and the targeting of the bombing was not yet used, and the terrorists had already tried to use the airplane to kill. Only technical problems and prevented. 

	...As it later turned out, the question of Kerensky's participation in the Combat Organization was decided personally by Azef, who, as a police agent, informed the Security Department of all the news of the Socialist Revolutionaries. The newcomer refused to Azef, and the police authorities undoubtedly informed him of the enthusiastic terror that had appeared.

	And Kerensky, even learning about the role of Azef, did not understand why he was preventively arrested for several months, having found an excuse.
	The arrest came as a surprise:

	[quote from Kerensky's book]



Abraham book:

	...In January 1913, the head of the Paris Agency of the Okhrana wrote to the Director of the Police Department, claiming that Kerensky was a member of the Central Committee of the PSR. The letter alleged that Kerensky had joined the party in 1903, that he had belonged to the Petersburg Committee in 1906, and—most startling of all—that he had some connection with Bogroy, who assassinated Stolypin following the Premier's loss of Imperial favor in 1911. It concluded:

		in the autumn of 1911, when a split occurred in the PSR, three different currents were formed and Pochin began to appear, Kerensky announced his departure from the Central Committee, but was obliged to remain until the calling of a council or congress of the party.48

	This fantastic picture of Kerensky's conspiratorial achievements is as much an exaggeration as Chernov's contrary suggestion that Kerensky only “called himself a Socialist Revolutionary”. It was a retrospective attempt to explain the importance that Kerensky quite suddenly assumed in 1912 by men who had failed to forsee such a development. Stolypin's assassination had been facilitated by police negligence, and the Okhrana had good reasons for wanting to place the blame on the opposition. At all events, they were bolting the stable door after the horse had fled.


head of Paris Okhrana claimed Kerensky had relations with assassin of Stolypin


	...The next day, Rodzyanko was astonished when Malinovsky visited him to announce his resignation, and thunderstruck when Assistant Minister of the Interior Dzhunkovsky arrived to tell him that Malinovsky had been a police agent all along. Dzhunkovsky had no obvious personal axe to grind and the reasons for Malinovsky's exposure have never been established. However, it may be that the Okhrana though this the easiest way of terminating an experiment that had gotten out of hand. Malinovsky was supposed to split the Social Democrats, not win them a mass following. Lenin refused to accept that his Duma favorite had been a police agent and, though this discredited him in some quarters, it may have been a lesser evil than the demoralization that afflicted the SRs after Azef's exposure. The major beneficiary of the episode was Alexander Kerensky. As a percipient English journalist recorded:

		The mysterious disappearance of the Okhrana spy, Malinovski, who had been the leader of the Bolsheviks in the Duma, removed the only man who could rival Kerensky in appeal to the masses.


claims Kerensky benefited from Azef affair, and also from Malinovsky's departure from the Duma


the "percipient English journalist" citation is Wolfe in Three who made a Revolution, 611-20 and Wilcox Russia's Ruin 191


------


Kerensky's war minister, Verkhovsky, was also involved in the assassination of Ferdinand:

http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/1989/eirv16n13-19890324/eirv16n13-19890324_040-soviet_troops_still_in_afghanist.pdf

said to have funded Apis

also points out some ties between the Black Hand, "the Trust", and Communists

http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/1989/eirv16n13-19890324/eirv16n13-19890324.pdf

this is full article

Verkhovsky was an assistant to Artamanov at the time of the assassination, although apparently he did not give any additional insight into the assassination. One pg 38 is a denial of involvement by Artamanov.


reportedly Verkhovsky told Louis de Trydar-Bruzynski "the truth about the origins, preparations, and execution of the plot:"


	Another source cited by Albertini,  the Russian-Polish archeologist and member of the former Archeological Insti­tute of St.  Petersburg, Louis de Trydar-Bruzynski, stated in his 1926 memoirs:  "The assassination was perpetrated with the  support of  the Russian Military Attache at  Belgrade. Captain Werchovski [Verkhovsky], who was assistant to the Military Attache [Artamonov] and was later War Minister in the Kerensky Government, a young man whom I had known very well for years and all his family,  told me quite frankly the truth about the origins, preparations and execution of the plot."

	On April 13, 1932, when this passage was reprinted in the Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung, it was footnoted with the comment, "Alexander Ivanovich Werchovski [Verkhovsky] is still alive and holds a high command in the Red Army.  His evidence, therefore, can still be obtained." 


Anything else by Verkhovsky? If he had information on this it would be a big deal, but so far can't find much except for people saying he would have known more (and would be tight-lipped since he held a high position in the Soviet military.)

Would it have been "out of character" for Kerensky to choose Verkhovsky as War Minister? ostensibly, they wouldn't want anyone with ties to "Tsarist plots"


from Taylor:

	There may be one man still alive who knows the whole story; the Russian assistant military attaché, Captain Alexander Werchovski, who replaced Artamanov during his absence. A friend of Werchovski, a Polish nobleman named Louis de Trydar-Burzynski, stated in his memoirs, published in Italy in 1926, that “the assassination [at Sarajevo] was perpetrated with the support of the Russian military attaché at Belgrade, Captain Werchovski...” Werchovski, he continued, “was later War Minister in the Kerensky government; he was a young man whom I had known very well for years, and he told me quite frankly the truth about the origins, preparations and execution of the plot.” Unfortunately, Werchovski, if he is living today, is not likely to tell any more about the case; when last heard of, he held a high command in the Red Army—a curious detail in itself.


does sound like Verchovsky was tight-lipped


------



https://books.google.com/books/?id=L1pDAQAAMAAJ&pg=PA62#v=onepage&q&f=false


At a time when the Whites needed the help of the Finns to take Petrograd, Kerensky sabotages diplomacy with them:

	...This was the moment chosen by KErensky in Paris and Professor Miliukov in London separately to make statements to the effect that no one had the right to recognize the independence of Finland, thus completely antagonising the latter's growing sympathy with Russians.
